--- PAGE 1 ---


--- PAGE 2 ---


--- PAGE 3 ---
FORECAST 
2026 
Raymond Merriman’s Annual Almanac 
(Cycles in Human Activity Corresponding to Cycles in the Cosmos) 
Celebrating 50 Years of Publication Since 1976! 
Merriman Market Analyst, Inc. / P.O. Box 14934 / Scottsdale, AZ 85267 
Phone: 1-800-MMA-3349 / Fax: 1-248-538-5296 
E-mail: CustomerService@mmacycles.com
Website: http://www.mmacycles.com

--- PAGE 4 ---
♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦ 
DEDICATION 
This year’s book is dedicated to the generation born with Pluto in Leo and Neptune in Libra. This 
includes many of the so-called “baby boomers.” What sets this generation apart? Why has it been so 
maligned by others? And why dedicate this year’s book to the Pluto-in-Leo, Neptune-in-Libra gen -
eration (i.e., my generation)? 
First, with Pluto in Leo, you gave new importance to the values of fun and happiness. I don’t 
see any other generation in my lifetime enjoying life as much as we have. Sure, we have been self-
centered, which may disturb those who think we have not cared about future generations—but that is 
not entirely true. We have been colorful, discovered ways to live longer and healthier, and seem never 
to end the quest for happiness! In the words of Bob Dylan, this generation believes in being “Forever 
Young,” regardless of chronological age. 
Second, with Neptune in Libra, this generation has lived the altruistic quest for both world peace 
and love. They have sought romance and the experience of an active, mobile life. This generation typi-
cally sees the best in others, starting relationships with trust until proven otherwise. There is a quality of 
innocence and playful joy in interacting with others. There is an uplifting delight and a sense of freedom 
in dancing and music. The music of this generation has transformed cultures around the world. Musi-
cians have been this generation’s philosophers, stimulating revolutionary thinking that has brought its 
population together in a communal bond of shared values, even if unconventional at times. 
Through the relentless search for truth, this generation’s exploration of studies such as astrology, 
metaphysics, meditation, and Far Eastern philosophies has opened up new areas of understanding and 
ways to cope with the monumental changes that have occurred in our lifetime. This generation has 
truly led humankind into a new consciousness. You have been the leaders of the modern-day astrol -
ogy movement! And so, this year’s book is dedicated to all members of that generation who continue 
to uphold these ideals. 
Special thanks this year to our four editing angels: Teresa Detrich, Susannah Mira, Beth Woody, 
and now Heidi Crimmin. The monthly planetary calendars in the back of the book are from the Path-
finder Astrology System, created by John Woodsmall of Astro*Cybernetics. The ephemeris tables are 
reproduced from The New American Ephemeris, 2020–2030. ACS may be reached at 866-953-8458 
or at 
www.astrocom.com. 
Cover design: Kat Powell (Denver, Colorado)  and Antonia Langsdorf (Cologne, Germany 
and Miami, Florida), www.antonialangsdorf.com. 
Copyright © November 2025. Reproduction or use of this material is allowed only upon prior 
consent from the publisher. 
ISBN: 978-1-953838-28-5 
Phone: 1-248-626-3034 or 1-800-MMA-3349 / Fax 1-248-538-5296 
Merriman Market Analyst, Inc. – P.O. Box 14934 – Scottsdale, AZ 85267 
Website: https://www.mmacycles.com 
E-mail: customerservice@mmacycles.com

--- PAGE 5 ---
5 
6 
TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Market Terminology Used in this Book 2 
Geocosmic Terminology Used in this Book 3 
About the 2026 Front Cover 4 
About the 2026 Inside Front Cover 
The Tradition of the Annual Forecast Book 
Accuracy and Precision: Limits to Forecasting 7 
Brief Note to Investors and Traders in 2026 11 
Changing of the Guard: Transition of Leadership Under the Aries V ortex 13 
2026 and the Aries V ortex: Fear and the Re-Imagination of Hope for the Future 15 
The Saturn–Neptune Conjunction 20 
Uranus Trine Pluto: Creative Destruction Via Technological Renaissance 26 
The Chart of Modern Mankind 39 
Pluto in Aquarius: Revolutionary Change 43 
Neptune in Aries: The Dawn of New Dreams 47 
Uranus in Gemini: The Communications Renaissance 51 
Saturn in Aries: Building Through Fire 58 
Jupiter in Leo: The Heart of Power 65 
The Nodal Cycles and the Economy in 2026 72 
The Federal Reserve Board: A Fight for Control 76 
The United States in 2026: Exceptionalism Versus Status Downgrade 79 
The U.S. President in 2026: Legendary Hero or Corrupt Grifter? 89 
The Dow Jones Industrial Average (DJIA) in 2026 98 
The NASDAQ in 2026 108 
Gold in 2026 117 
Silver in 2026 122 
T-Notes Lining Up for a 6-Year Cycle Crest in 2026 127 
Currency Markets in 2026 134 
The U.S. Dollar Index (DXY) 135 
U.S. Dollar/Yen 139 
The Euro 144 
The Swiss Franc 147 
Bitcoin in 2026 151 
Crude Oil in 2026 157 
Grain Markets in 2026 162 
Corn 164 
Wheat 168 
Soybeans 172 
Favorable Times, Challenging Times for 2026 176 
Mercury Retrograde Periods in 2026 177 
Venus Retrograde Period in 2026 180 
Specific Times of the Year by Seasons in 2026 183 
2026 Geocosmic Ephemeris and Astro Calendar Guide 205 
1

--- PAGE 6 ---
MARKET TERMINOLOGY USED IN THIS BOOK 
The following are terms that the reader will find throughout this book, especially in the Financial 
Markets sections. 
Cycle: A measurable phenomenon that recurs consistently at regular intervals of time. In markets, 
cycles are measured from trough (lowest point) to trough unless specified otherwise. 
Trough: A low in price; the bottom of a cycle, where the cycle ends and begins. 
Crest: The peak of a cycle; the highest price between the troughs that define the cycle. 
Phase: A sub-cycle within each cycle. Each cycle is composed of two or three sub-cycles, or phases, 
which are approximately one-half or one-third of the greater cycle’s length. 
Cycle pattern: There are three common cycle patterns: 
• The classical three-phase pattern, in which there are three sub-cycles (or phases) of approxi-
mately one-third the greater cycle length 
• The classical two-phase pattern, consisting of two sub-cycles (or phases) of approximately 
one-half the greater cycle length 
• A combination pattern, which has sub-cycles at both the one-half and one-third intervals of 
the greater cycle 
Bull market: Consecutive higher crests and higher troughs of the same cycle type; often associated 
with right translation patterns of primary cycles. Right translation means the crest occurs in the 
second half of the cycle, past its midpoint. 
Bear market: Consecutive lower troughs and lower crests of the same cycle type; often associated 
with left translation patterns of primary cycles. Left translation means the crest occurs in the first 
half of the cycle. 
Trend: Either bullish or bearish, depending on the cycle being studied. The first phase of a cycle is 
always bullish, and the last is usually bearish. 
Support: An area below the current market price where prices are expected to hold on declines—a 
“floor” for prices. 
Resistance: An area above the current market price where prices are expected to hold on rallies—a 
“ceiling” for prices. 
Treasury values: In the chapter on T-Notes and Interest Rates, prices for T-Notes are quoted in 
values of 1/32 of a point. For instance, a value of 130/25 means 130 and 25/32 of a point. This is 
the standard quoting convention for Treasuries. 
For further information on understanding market and cycle terminology, the reader is advised to 
consult the author’s work entitled Merriman on Market Cycles: The Basics. 
2

--- PAGE 7 ---
GEOCOSMIC TERMINOLOGY USED IN THIS BOOK 
Conjunction: An aspect that occurs when two planets are in the same sign and degree of the zodiac. 
They appear to be together. A conjunction marks the starting point of a cycle involving those 
two planets. 
Opposition: An aspect that occurs when two planets are in opposite signs and degrees of the zodiac. 
They appear to be on opposite sides of the sky—when one sets in the west, the other rises in the 
east. An opposition represents the halfway point of a cycle involving those two planets. It marks 
the culmination of the themes, or the peak of the cycle, which began with their conjunction. 
Square: An aspect that occurs when two planets are 90 degrees apart in the zodiac. They appear to 
be at a right angle—perpendicular to one another. A square represents the first (opening) and last 
(closing) quarter phases of a cycle involving those two planets. 
Trine: An aspect that occurs when two planets are 120 degrees apart in the zodiac. A trine represents 
the first-third and last-third phases of a cycle involving those two planets. Trines are considered 
soft or harmonious aspects, along with the sextile (60 degrees, or one-sixth of the zodiac circle). 
Hard aspects: The conjunction, square, and opposition are considered the hard aspects in astrology. 
They are challenging and difficult, representing the urge to force conflicting dynamics to work 
together. 
T-square: A pattern in which two planets are in opposition, with both square to a third planet. 
Grand square: A pattern in which four planets form consecutive squares to one another. It consists 
of two pairs of oppositions, with each pair also square to the other pair. 
Grand trine: A pattern in which three planets form consecutive trines to one another. It appears 
as an equilateral triangle in the heavens and is considered the most fortunate of all planetary 
configurations. 
Cardinal signs: Every third sign, starting with Aries, followed by Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn. 
Cardinal signs mark the beginning of each season and are associated with action and initiation. 
Fixed signs: Every third sign, starting with Taurus, followed by Leo, Scorpio, and Aquarius. Fixed 
signs occupy the middle of each season. They stabilize and maintain the energy initiated by car-
dinal signs and are said to be steadfast, persistent, and sometimes stubborn. 
Mutable signs: Every third sign, starting with Gemini, followed by Virgo, Sagittarius, and Pisces. 
Mutable signs close each season and represent change, adaptability, and flexibility. 
3

--- PAGE 8 ---
ABOUT THE 2026 FRONT COVER 
This year’s Forecast 2026 book cover is the work of creative graphic designers Kat Powell of 
Denver, Colorado, and Antonia Langsdorf-Merriman of Cologne, Germany (now Miami, Florida). 
The design is symbolic of the past, present, and future. 
Notice the book the children are reading. It represents a compilation of the past 50 years during 
which this annual Forecast book has been published. That’s right—we are celebrating the 50th year 
of publishing our Forecast books! The book in the children’s hands symbolizes these 50 years, a 
period during which we have identified the major cosmic events of each year and shown how they 
likely correlated with collective psychology and human activity in the spheres of global and national 
economics, politics, sociopolitical trends, and financial markets. 
The children themselves represent the future. They are the youth who will determine the course 
humankind takes in the years ahead. Note their diversity: they are of different sexes and nationali -
ties. Yet there are no barriers preventing them from being fully engaged with one another. This is the 
future of the world in which racial and gender differences become meaningless as a basis for interac-
tion. The politics of polarization and propaganda that have divided the world over the past 50 years 
will eventually come to an end—and will, in fact, have come to an end—as humankind grows into 
this “New Aira,” identified in the annual Forecast books as unfolding between 2020 and 2032. 
The backdrop of this image shows a red-colored nebula lighting up the heavens. This celestial 
phenomenon symbolizes the “Aries V ortex” of 2025-2027, which culminates on February 20, 2026. 
It also reflects the present state of our solar system, marked by the unusually rare configuration of 
Uranus and Pluto in a favorable trine aspect. The midpoint of this trine is 0° Aries, the degree where 
Saturn and Neptune join together in 2025-2026. Aries, ruled by Mars—the “red planet” of war and 
conflict—is also the sign of new beginnings. It signifies a time of epic change, transformation, and 
turbulence. For this reason, it is depicted as a whirling mass of red activity above the otherwise 
peaceful and beautiful Earth. In the background, the innocent children are shown without social or 
meaningless barriers, united in their quest to understand the present and future by reading the books 
of the past. 
The children (the future) are surrounded by books. A home with a library symbolizes security and 
stability, as well as the importance of family, which in astrology is one of the themes associated with 
Jupiter in Cancer, a combination in effect from mid-2025 through mid-2026. It is meant to evoke a 
Cancerian sense of nostalgia and connection to the past. 
The dream of owning a home and raising a family has been a significant challenge this decade for 
younger adults. The peak of this challenge—and the height of polarization among different classes 
and demographics in society, divided by age, race, gender, nationality, and political leanings—may 
very well be taking place right now, during the Aries V ortex and at the midpoint of the New Aira. The 
symbolism of this year’s book cover, therefore, conveys hope for the future: the creation of a new 
foundation of normalcy that offers the next generation the opportunity to live a fruitful, peaceful, and 
secure life. 
4

--- PAGE 9 ---
ABOUT THE 2026 INSIDE FRONT COVER 
This design was created by Kat Powell. It is titled “How Much Time?” 
Here, you see a crust of the universe cracking open. The universe is beautiful, but it also conveys 
an image of coldness—an Ice Age, perhaps even the warming of the Earth and the melting of its sur -
face. The crack in the surface, however, reveals an entirely new reality of beauty: another universe 
altogether, radiant with splendor. 
This is like our MMA concept of cycles within cycles. Every cycle is part of a larger cycle, and 
within every cycle, there are smaller sub-cycles. Here we have our “known universe,” which turns out 
to be only an appearance—an illusion—that contains yet another larger and more infinite universe. It 
is one that we are only just beginning to experience and comprehend. Our whole model of reality, of 
life as we have known it, is thus transforming as we enter this “New Aira” of knowledge and under-
standing about our world, our universe, and even our universes (plural). 
In a way, the transition of the front cover—illustrating the past, present, and future—is meant to 
flow into an even deeper aspect of the unknown future being revealed to us as we are teleported into 
the middle of this New Aira. It is especially crucial right now during the 2025-2026 “Aries V ortex,” 
which is a funnel involving all four outermost planets (Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto) in a con-
figuration that focuses on the vernal equinox point of 0° Aries. This celestial phenomenon has never 
before been experienced by our planet Earth. 
It reveals an entirely new reality, direction, and way forward for humanity. We know something 
huge is underway, but we don’t yet know quite how it will turn out. The “opening” shown in this 
image illustrates that it is only beginning to be revealed to us. There is still more of the future to 
unfold, or “open up” to us as the image suggests. 
“How much time” will it take before it opens enough and we finally “see the way”? 
That is the challenge of our annual Forecast books. This year’s edition begins to reveal the nature 
and purpose of the Aries V ortex, within the greater period of this New Aira—a term coined in 2020 
by the artist featured here, Kat Powell. 
As you read the following pages, may you begin to understand where we are and where we are 
headed. Enjoy this year’s journey back to—and into—the future. 
5

--- PAGE 10 ---
THE TRADITION OF THE ANNUAL Forecast BOOK 
The first Forecast book I wrote was in 1975, for the year 1976. Thus, Forecast 2026 represents 
a historic personal milestone: the 50th consecutive year of this annual almanac! Who would have 
guessed this would be the case when I started in 1976? Never underestimate the endurance of one 
with both the Sun and Moon in Capricorn! 
When I began, I was unaware of any other annual astrological almanacs being written. There may 
have been, but if so, they were not well known. In fact, in 1975-1976, I was not very well-known 
either. I hadn’t even experienced my first Saturn return. But all that changed by the end of 1976. 
Today, thousands of copies of the annual Forecast book are distributed each year in several dif-
ferent languages. But the historical tradition of an annual astrological almanac is even more remark-
able. I had no knowledge of this tradition until I spoke with Dr. Christof Niederwieser of Rottweil, 
Germany, who now lives in Switzerland. In my opinion, Christof is one of the world’s foremost 
mundane astrologers. He is also a noted astrological scholar, researcher, and historian. From 2018 to 
2020, he was invited to serve as a visiting fellow at the University of Erlangen, where he wrote two 
prognostication books of his own. In his research, he uncovered a wealth of scientific literature on the 
history of astrology—specifically, the history of astrological almanacs. 
He notes that shortly after Johannes Gutenberg invented the printing press in 1454, interest in 
astrology exploded. This was largely due to the popularity of annual almanacs, which continued to 
grow and peaked between 1580 and 1610. The most popular of these almanacs achieved print runs 
of up to 50,000 copies a year! 
Afterward, a slow decline set in. The fall of astrology was largely due to the many sensational 
but incorrect predictions made by astrologers in prior decades to boost sales with spectacular head -
lines of impending cataclysms. This had been exaggerated, especially during the Thirty Years’ War 
(1618-1648). The major event that made the public very skeptical of astrology was the solar eclipse 
of August 1654. Astrologers debated whether this eclipse would be a full or a partial one. People 
concluded: if astrologers could not even distinguish between a total and partial eclipse, how could 
they predict wars, famines, weather, and the like based on celestial factors like an eclipse? It didn’t 
help that many predicted a great flood that would wipe out vast parts of Europe—a flood that never 
occurred. Thus began the decline of astrology and the annual astrological almanacs in Europe. How-
ever, the tradition was rekindled several years later in other countries, including England and the 
United States. Benjamin Franklin, for example, wrote a yearly almanac that became very popular. 
So here we are, more than 200 years later, reviving this ancient tradition in astrology—hopefully 
in a meaningful and ethical way, with a better outcome than what our ancestors devolved into in the 
mid-1600s. To quote Niederwieser in a personal e-mail on the subject: “Yes, you are definitely in an 
honorable tradition with the yearly almanacs!” 
6

--- PAGE 11 ---
ACCURACY AND PRECISION: LIMITS TO FORECASTING 
An astrologer, or one who uses the study of astrology to make forecasts or even predictions, is not 
the same as a psychic or clairvoyant, despite often being lumped together by those who do not under-
stand the difference. One uses objective means to make forecasts, while the other relies on subjective 
means. An astrologer is capable of providing probabilities for forecasts based on historical facts and 
frequencies of occurrence, while a psychic or clairvoyant is not. Both may at times make forecasts 
or predictions based on personal observations and experiences, but that is not the same as providing 
evidence-based studies supporting probabilities derived from past frequencies of repetitive patterns. 
An astrologer examines the relationship of the planets to one another. Planets are also analyzed 
according to their relationship to the equinoxes and solstices. The vernal and autumnal equinoxes 
mark the beginnings of the signs Aries and Libra (spring and autumn as measured by the Earth’s orbit 
around the Sun). The solstices are identified as 0° Cancer and 0º Capricorn, or the start of summer and 
winter, based on the Earth’s orbital cycle. These are the points by which seasons are measured, which 
is also how much of human activity is organized. When a planet—or the Sun, in the case of a geo -
centric perspective—crosses one of these points, it begins a “cardinal sign” (Aries, Cancer, Libra, or 
Capricorn) for approximately the next 30 degrees of spatial arc. In the case of the Sun, it will remain 
in that cardinal sign for approximately 30 days. The next 30 degrees represent the “fixed signs,” or in 
the case of the Sun, the middle of the season. The last 30 degrees represent the “mutable signs,” or in 
the case of the Sun, the change of the seasons. 
Each of these planets and signs has different dynamics. They relate to different themes and dif -
ferent aspects of human experience or nature. For instance, some planets, including the Sun and 
Mars, are “hot.” Hence, the signs they rule—Leo and Aries—are also “hot.” They are known as “fire 
signs.” Thus, when “fire signs” are activated, there is much energy on Earth, but tempers can also 
flare, which in turn can lead to conflicts and threats of war. This can also correlate with hotter-than-
normal temperatures, which may lead to droughts and famine. Now, a psychic might be able to claim 
to know which influence would dominate under a gathering of several planets in fire signs—war or 
droughts. But an astrologer, at best, might forecast one or the other, or perhaps state something like: 
“These placements can suggest the possibility of either a drought or war.” The astrologer cannot be 
certain exactly which type of event will unfold, but can suggest with confidence the themes involved 
and the types of events that may correlate with those themes. 
Furthermore, the astrologer can accurately identify “when” these themes and possible events are 
most likely to occur. A psychic or clairvoyant cannot consistently do this, although some may claim 
they can. Without astrology, their subjective vision of the future often lacks accuracy in predicting 
the timing of events. 
This brings up another difference between the two often-confused practices. An astrologer 
observes outer cosmic movements. It is an objective study in its own right. The interpretation of 
those movements may be subjective, but the timing is objective. This is not the case with psychics or 
clairvoyants, whose analysis is purely subjective, based on a “feeling” or “vision” they experience 
when in the presence of a client. 
7

--- PAGE 12 ---
In many cases, an astrological delineation of a chart may be misunderstood by those who 
think astrology, or the astrologer, “missed something” or was inaccurate because a specific event 
suggested did not happen. In other words, the narrower or more specific an astrologer’s inter -
pretation of a geocosmic signature, or even its timing, the more likely it will appear inaccurate. 
Astrology, in its purest interpretation, must allow for a wide range of possibilities to accurately 
reflect the meaning of a particular signature. This is important because the highest role of an 
astrologer is to help the client better understand the possibilities before them, so they (the client) 
can make informed choices in their life. The broader the communication of the themes and dynam -
ics involved, and the wider the timing of possible events under those themes and dynamics, the 
more accurate the astrologer will be. For instance, if an astrologer forecasted that between 2020 
and 2025 the price of Bitcoin would be higher, that forecast would have been 100% accurate. But 
that is a very wide time band and would have missed the 80% price decline from November 2021 
through November 2022. If that astrologer had said the price of Bitcoin would be higher every 
year between 2020 and 2025, the prediction would be inaccurate because of the collapse in 2022. 
The same would be true with stocks. One might say that stock indices will be higher every 
ten years. That is, if you invest in a stock market index at any time, the value of that index 
would be higher ten years later. That prediction is often used by salespeople of financial funds 
and would be correct—except after the high of 1929, when it took more than 20 years for stock 
markets to regain their value from the September 1929 peak. Is this type of prediction, with very 
broad and ten-year time bands, helpful? Perhaps it is for one who is very patient. Or would it be 
more helpful—and profitable—to know that during a certain year or period, the stock market has 
a high historical frequency of dropping at least 20%, or even 35% or more, according to histori -
cal evidence? An investor might be better off waiting for such a decline before investing in the 
stock market when it is making a new all-time high. There are arguments to support both sides 
of this question. 
However, the point is that there are limits to the degree of accuracy an astrologer can provide, 
especially when dealing with something as volatile as a financial market or a political trend. The 
best one can do is share the research—historical studies based on evidence that can yield prob -
abilities about the future, drawn from what has transpired in the past under the same or similar 
geocosmic signatures or cyclical time bands, especially when they overlap—and then make a 
projection of what that indicator suggests about the present or future. If the forecaster provides 
evidence of past correlations, and the market does not repeat this time as it did in the past, does 
that mean the astrologer or market timer was wrong? Or does that simply mean this was one of the 
fewer than 20% of instances in which a particular cycle didn’t happen as it had before? 
This is what an ethical astrologer can do: provide historical evidence and make a projection 
based on that evidence when the same indicators appear again. The examples above illustrate the 
limits of forecasting accuracy. The more specific the forecast is in terms of an event rather than 
a theme, the more likely the astrologer is to miss other dynamics that could unfold according to 
astrological principles. The more specific and narrower one is in forecasting a turn in a long-term 
market trend—a turn with a wide time band relative to the length of the cycle being examined— 
the more likely one is to miss it. A financial astrologer can, for instance, demonstrate that an 
18-year U.S. stock market cycle has occurred 100% of the time within a 13- to 21-year interval 
since the market was founded in 1792. However, if the astrologer states unequivocally that it will 
happen in a specific year—say, 2026—that prediction has only a 12.5% chance of being exact (if 
8

--- PAGE 13 ---
given in 2021). In fact, every year in that 8-year time band has a 12.5% probability of being the 
exact year of the cycle. If one allows the entire time band to represent a possible 18-year cycle 
low, there is an excellent chance of being correct, as this has occurred in all cases so far. But as 
one tries to narrow that time band down to a single year, the odds of being correct begin to decline. 
How do we address those odds in an effort to narrow the time band down for such a long-term 
cycle’s culmination? We do this by overlapping smaller cycles, sub-cycles, or “phases” of the 
longer-term cycle. For example, an 18-year cycle might be composed of three 6-year sub-cycles 
or phases that have a normal range of 5-7 years. When the second phase is completed, we add 
5-7 years to that date and see where it overlaps the 18-year cycle. For instance, if the last 18-year 
cycle in the U.S. stock market occurred in March 2009, then the odds are high that the next one 
will occur between 2022 and 2030. If we know that the last 6-year cycle ended in 2022, and in 
over 80% of historical cases this sub-cycle has occurred every 5-7 years, we can project that it is 
next due in 2028 +/– 1 year, overlapping the 18-year cycle time band. This is where the probabili -
ties, based on historical studies, are greatest. But the 6-year cycle is not 100% reliable—it is just 
over 80%. So, if the cycle low does not happen in 2028 +/– 1 year, but instead happens in, say, 
2026 or 2030—still within the 100% historical time band for the 18-year cycle, are we wrong? Or 
is this simply a case of the event happening slightly outside the 80% window? This illustrates the 
limits of accuracy in forecasting. The broader the interpretation and timing, the more accurate it 
will be. However, the broader and wider the timing of the event, the less useful it becomes for the 
reader to benefit from—or profit by. 
Efforts to narrow the time band and accuracy of a possible event do not end with cycle over -
laps. This is what distinguishes MMA from most market analysts. We also use geocosmic cycles 
that correlate with historical events and market culminations. The basic rule is this: the longer 
the planetary cycle that is unfolding, the more likely it will coincide with the end of a long-term 
market trend and the beginning of a new one. Likewise, the closer a long-term market cycle is to 
being due, the more likely a long-term planetary cycle will also be in effect. 
Given that the Aries V ortex, for example, is in effect in 2025-2026, and that it is the rarest 
celestial configuration of our lifetime, there is reason to think the all-time highs (the crest of the 
18-year cycle) may be happening now. The crest is due at any time, as is the 18-year cycle trough, 
which is expected sometime before 2030. And since 35-65% declines tend to occur after such a 
long-term bullish trend ends, what should the prediction be? 
More importantly, what should a stock market investor’s strategy be over the next couple of 
years? That question not only illustrates the limits of forecasting but also the value of applying 
these timing methods with an understanding of their odds and importance. If you can avoid buy -
ing when a market is making an all-time high and instead wait for a 37-63% decline that is due 
before entering, which offers a better possibility of long-term profits? 
This is why market timing, when used effectively, gives an investor better odds of success. 
You don’t have to be exact in your timing, but it is helpful to know the limits and probabilities. 
Knowledge of cycle studies combined with geocosmics provides this “edge.” It is an edge that all 
traders and investors seek. 
Acknowledgement and Note of Thanks for Exceptional Contribution to this Year’s Fore -
cast book: In this, our 50th year of publication, we would like to give recognition to MMA Market 
9

--- PAGE 14 ---
Analyst Pouyan Zolfagharnia, who wrote special sections on the outer planet sign ingresses, as 
well as the seasonal ingresses for 2026. The ingresses of Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto will serve as 
models of guidance for the next 7-20 years. His historical research and correlation to many of today’s 
global themes are excellent, and in my opinion, elevate him into the top tier in the world of today’s 
Mundane Astrologers. I am proud to have Pouyan’s expertise as an analyst at MMA! Additionally, he 
is a wonderfully warm and kind human being. 
10

--- PAGE 15 ---
BRIEF NOTE TO INVESTORS AND TRADERS IN 2026 
This year’s note is directed more to investors than to traders. The reason is that an important long-
term planetary cycle is in force: the 36-year Saturn–Neptune conjunction on February 20, 2026. Long-
term planetary cycles most often correlate with the completion of long-term market cycles. Further -
more, predicting the exact turn of such cycles within a narrow time band is never easy when a long-term 
planetary cycle is unfolding. There are many possibilities within the orb of influence of such a cycle. 
The historical orb of influence for a long-term stock market cycle connected to the Saturn–Nep-
tune conjunction is eleven months. The conjunction is exact on February 20, 2026, which means a 
long-term cycle crest or trough (or both) is due between March 2025 and February 2027. However, 
this can be narrowed down because, in all but one case, the range was eight months or less. This sug-
gests the highest probability for a long-term cycle to end lies between June 2025 and October 2026. 
We may be able to reduce this further if we take into account that in July 2025, these two outer 
planets came within just 13′ of their exact conjunction. If that counts, then allowing an 8-month orb 
from that time yields a range of November 2024 to March 2026. The overlap of March 2025 to March 
2026 would stand out as a potential long-term trend change. But it may expand to eight months 
beyond the exact conjunction in February 2026 as well. 
What type of long-term stock market cycle is due? As stated in The Ultimate Book on Stock Mar-
ket Timing: Geocosmic Correlations to Investment Cycles: 
The Saturn–Neptune conjunction has a definite correlation to long-term cycle crests. In some 
cases, these cycles were 18-year crests, and in others, they were simply phases of the 18-year 
cycle. Investors may use this signature as an opportunity to take profits on long-term holdings 
if the market is rallying into it, for the probabilities are great that a 4-year cycle will top out 
within the central time band, or close by. 
The U.S. stock market is in the time band for its 18-year cycle crest and trough, which extends 
from 2025 through 2030 in the case of the trough, with the crest due before that. But it could also be in 
the time band for a 4-year cycle crest and trough, measured from the low of September 2022. In the case 
of a 4-year cycle, we would anticipate a decline from the high of at least 16%. In the case of an 18-year 
cycle crest, we would anticipate a decline of 35-65%. Since the 18-year cycle will be starting its 17th 
year from the low of 2009, and bull runs to the crest of the next 18-year cycle have historically lasted 
9-20 years, one can see that it is getting very late for the 18-year cycle crest to be completed. 
With this in mind, our advice to investors is very simple: start looking for signs to scale back on 
long-term equity holdings or to hedge them in the event that a severe decline is approaching. You may 
also want to begin adjusting your portfolio with the idea that cash will soon be king again. But even 
that is a concern, because the Aries V ortex suggests that the Dollar may continue its decline relative 
to other currencies over the next three years. 
For this reason, investors are advised to consider diversifying their portfolios away from solely 
U.S. dollar-denominated assets and into those backed by other currencies, especially those of neutral 
countries, countries with economies heavily supported by commodities, and stable Asian currencies. 
Once the U.S. stock market declines 37-63%, consider moving back into U.S. equities. 
11

--- PAGE 16 ---
It is possible, but not likely, that each of these cycles will end and begin in 2026. My view, how-
ever, is that investors are well advised to consider protecting their portfolios against a severe decline 
that could very well begin from a high forming within the orb of the Saturn–Neptune conjunction 
crest described above. 
I also have a specific period for traders to concentrate on in 2026. This would be in the latter 
half of July (July 15-25), when the transit of Jupiter will form a sextile to Uranus, trine to Neptune, 
and opposition to Pluto. Uranus will also form a sextile to Neptune and a trine to Pluto. These are 
intermediate- and long-term planetary cycles, so they require an orb of up to four months to manifest 
as an intermediate or long-term cycle in various financial markets. But in many cases, such a cycle 
could very well happen within three weeks of this period. Traders are advised to watch for reversals 
in markets that are making new yearly highs or lows, or double tops and/or double bottoms. 
Please refer to the sections on financial markets for further insights, especially the stock market 
and currency sections. Beyond that, keep up with our analysis of these markets through the monthly 
and/or weekly MMA Cycles Reports. The patterns that define the trend status of all cycles can change 
quickly as we move through 2026. 
12

--- PAGE 17 ---
CHANGING OF THE GUARD: 
TRANSITION OF LEADERSHIP UNDER THE ARIES VORTEX 
They say ev’ry man needs protection, 
They say ev’ry man must fall. 
Yet I swear I see my reflection 
Some place so high above this wall. 
I see my light come shining 
From the west unto the east. 
Any day now, any day now, 
I shall be released. 
—Bob Dylan, “I Shall Be Released,” Music from Big Pink (The Band, 1968) 
Worry and anxiety are only a matter of the time it takes us to adjust to the Truth. 
—Damien Simpson and Ray Merriman interview, Universal Mind Science, Hollywood, 
California, early 1980s 
I have never lived in a time when the U.S. was not the world’s dominant superpower. 
I have never lived in a world where the U.S. Dollar was not the dominant standard world currency. 
I have never lived during a period when the U.S. did not have strong allies throughout the world 
who trusted it to be the leader of world order and global security. 
However, that is all changing as we enter the midpoint of the “New Aira” of 2020– 2032, which 
just happens to coincide with the “Aries V ortex” of 2025–2026. 
What is this “New Aira”? What exactly constitutes an “Aries V ortex”? And what correlation do 
these two extremely rare cosmic developments have with great changes in the world order? Can any-
thing be done to affect how these changes unfold? 
Let’s review the larger New Aira cycle first. On December 21, 2020, Jupiter and Saturn conjoined 
at 0° Aquarius. This synodic cycle occurs approximately every 20 years. For roughly 200 years, those 
conjunctions take place in signs of the same element, with slight distortions near the beginning and 
end of each 200-year interval, when the series crosses the boundaries between elements. Between 
1802 and 2000, for example, the conjunctions occurred mostly in earth signs, except in 1821, when 
the cycle reverted briefly to late Aries, and in 1980–81, when it leaped forward to the air sign of 
Libra. In 2000, the conjunction of Jupiter and Saturn returned for one final occurrence in the earth 
sign of Capricorn. 
The air-sign era is now underway with the Jupiter–Saturn conjunction in Aquarius on December 
21, 2020. From 2020 through 2199, eight of the next nine Jupiter–Saturn conjunctions will occur 
in air signs. The air element of this synodic cycle has not been dominant since the 13th century, or 
approximately 800 years ago. Thus, as coined by market analyst and astrologer Kat Powell, we are 
now entering the “New Aira” cycle of the “Great Chronocrator,” a term often used to refer to the 
Jupiter–Saturn cycle. 
13

--- PAGE 18 ---
Of greatest importance right now is the first 12 years of the New Aira, or 2020–2032. This is the 
interval of time that it will take Jupiter to return to 0° Aquarius, the point from which the New Aira 
began. These 12 years will unfold as a sub-cycle within a greater cycle. It will likely take that long for 
humankind to begin to fully understand the New Aira transformation it is undergoing. It will take that 
long before the application of these new understandings registers in a meaningful, transformative, 
and enduring way—one that elevates human consciousness and clarifies the direction of the human 
experience. Until then, we are still learning what it means and how to use this new knowledge wisely. 
We already have a glimpse of the New Aira that is emerging and how it might manifest over 
time. Aquarius rules innovation, particularly in technology. One of the major themes associated with 
Aquarius is revolution and renaissance. In the past several Forecast books, it was noted that this 
would be a period of technological renaissance—and indeed it is. Yet we do not know quite yet how 
it will ultimately affect life on this planet. We see incredible possibilities. But there are also fears 
that it may lead to an ominous, even destructive, outcome for humanity. Will we be able to harness 
the power of this technological renaissance and use it constructively to improve life as we know it? 
Or will world leaders and other bad actors harness it first to control or destroy those they perceive 
as enemies? Answers to these questions during this first 12-year sub-cycle of the 200-year New Aira 
should begin to emerge as we continue through this period of transition. 
Sub-cycles are also known as phases. Just as this 12-year period is a sub-cycle, or phase, of 
the greater 200-year New Aira cycle, so too does the 12-year sub-cycle divide into two 6-year half-
cycles. And half-cycles can be very dramatic, for they represent turning points in the pendulum swing 
of the greater cycle. 
It so happens that the midpoint of this first 12-year phase coincides with another powerful celestial 
configuration known as the “Aries V ortex.” The course of human activity and leadership is shifting. 
The pendulum of world leadership is swinging from the West back to the East. America’s standing as 
the world’s leader is vulnerable to being replaced by leadership from the opposite hemisphere—to a 
degree never experienced before by most people alive today. Will this change actually take place? Or 
is this just a temporary threat to the status of the U.S. that will reverse shortly? Will its currency, the 
U.S. dollar, survive this threat as the de facto global currency used for most world trade? If so, how 
will the U.S. regain its economic leadership? If not, where will that lead the U.S. and other nations of 
the world? Who will emerge as the new leader? 
These are the questions—even the challenges—that the U.S. and the world face as we enter the 
midpoint of the first 12-year phase of the New Aira. These are the realities coming to light as we 
enter the Aries V ortex. Nothing is quite the same. The world in this New Aira is filled with danger and 
uncertainty—a classical representation of Saturn conjunct Neptune in Aries. Yet it also offers incred-
ible opportunities. Where there is fear, there is also opportunity for those who are alert and able to act 
in accordance with the changes signified by these times. 
For investors, this is a time to consider broadening one’s perspective—and one’s portfolio—to 
include the rise of new world leadership and assets backed by the currencies of these emerging world 
powers. In fact, the currencies themselves may change significantly, shifting from paper fiat to something 
more representative of this New Aira that began with the Jupiter–Saturn conjunction at 0° Aquarius. 
This is a techno-renaissance—and its currency is digital. It’s only a matter of time before we all 
need to adjust. 
14

--- PAGE 19 ---
2026 AND THE ARIES VORTEX: 
FEAR AND THE RE-IMAGINATION OF HOPE FOR THE FUTURE 
Everybody knows the war is over 
Everybody knows the good guys lost 
Everybody knows the fight was fixed 
The poor stay poor, the rich get rich 
That’ s how it goes 
Everybody knows 
Everybody knows that the boat is leaking 
Everybody knows that the captain lied 
Everybody got this broken feeling 
Like their father or their dog just died 
Everybody knows, everybody knows 
That’ s how it goes 
Everybody knows 
—Leonard Cohen, “Everybody Knows,” I’m Your Man (1988) 
History is seasonal and winter is here. 
—Neil Howe, “The Fourth Turning is Here,” Simon and Schuster, 2023. 
Welcome to “Crazy Times 2026.” 
This is the time of the long-anticipated “Aries V ortex,” an extremely rare celestial configuration 
centered on—and linked to—the Saturn–Neptune conjunction in the very first degree of Aries. Aries 
itself is the very first of 12 signs and marks the beginning of the world cycle according to astrology, 
the world’s oldest discipline exploring the correlation between cycles in the cosmos and cycles in 
human activity. 
Why are these “Crazy Times”? Because Saturn and Neptune correspond to more terms used in 
abnormal psychology than any other two planets. They represent very opposite dynamics, such as 
fear and hope, guilt and forgiveness, delusions of grandeur and persecution, certainty and disillusion-
ment, mania and depression, irrational exuberance and panic. And in the first degree of Aries, this 
setup indicates a monumental shift from the end of one long-term cycle (Pisces) to the beginning of 
a new one (Aries). That is, Neptune only crosses into Aries every 164 years. Saturn does the same 
approximately every 29 years. The two planets conjoin one another every 36 years. But how often do 
these two planets conjoin one another right at the end and beginning of the 12 signs? Our database 
only goes back to about 4000 BC, and there are no instances of this same cosmic feat during that time. 
Some astrologers have suggested that this cosmic configuration happened at some point between 
4000 and 8000 BC, but I cannot confirm that. 
To understand why the Aries V ortex of 2025–2026 is akin to “crazy times,” consider two things: 
(1) what is happening today, and (2) the principles associated with Saturn and Neptune, combined 
with the classic principles of Aries versus Pisces, the beginning of the cycle of signs versus the end 
of that cycle. In this case, it is not just an ordinary cycle but a very, very long one—over 4000 years 
in duration, at least. 
15

--- PAGE 20 ---
We must also take into account that the other two outermost planets—Uranus and Pluto—are 
in a favorable trine aspect, with their midpoint also crossing back and forth over 0° Aries, the very 
point of the Saturn–Neptune conjunction. These may seem like “crazy times” because they are 
unfolding under a geocosmic configuration that humanity has never before seen or experienced. 
Cosmic patterns this rare will usher in global changes of great magnitude, and life may seem so 
different that it feels a bit “crazy.” 
As we consider what has transpired already during the “orb of influence,” which began in 
early 2025 (when Saturn and Neptune entered Aries, followed by Uranus entering Gemini, and 
shortly Pluto finally entering Aquarius in November 2024), it is apparent that vast transforma -
tions are underway across multiple sectors of human activity. Figuratively speaking, everything 
that is supposed to be up has turned down, and everything that would normally be expected to 
turn down has instead turned up. What was previously regarded as diplomacy in the pursuit of 
world peace and global order has instead become driven by coercion and land- or money-grab -
bing, with little regard for consent or fairness toward those affected. The belief that “might is 
right,” and therefore entitles one to dictate the course of civilization rather than cooperate toward 
win-win outcomes and mutual benefit, has become the “new normal” of global leadership. This 
reflects one of the many expressions of Saturn in Aries (“the bully”), which will remain largely 
in effect through April 13, 2028. 
On a more positive note, Saturn in Aries can also represent superhuman efforts to build sys -
tems and structures that stand the test of time. However, this process is unlikely to unfold without 
resistance and struggle. Hence, there is often a challenge to authority and dominance. And without 
mutual respect among all parties involved, this can lead to conflict, or even the threat of war, where 
those with the most “might” can claim superiority and the mantle of power. 
Yet it is not just Saturn in Aries that indicates the harsh challenges that many experience today, 
especially those who find it difficult to adjust to this new reality (Aries). It is also Neptune, the 
planet of ideals, altruism, and the search for beauty and truth. Those guiding life principles are also 
being challenged. Even those who hold such fundamental religious beliefs as salvation in an after -
life for virtuous deeds committed in this life may find their belief systems challenged. 
One example of this cosmic dichotomy between Saturn and Neptune is the very simple con -
flict between hope and fear. Neptune represents hope, or the wish for a “better life,” even a perfect 
life—which, of course, is an illusion that can never be fully manifested on this plane. Yet it is a 
concept that can be imagined and moderated to mean simply a “better life” than the one currently 
being lived. Everyone has Neptune in their chart. Everyone has hope for a better life, a better 
world. For many, this belief is what keeps them going. It is supported by practices such as prayer 
and meditation, which are among the activities associated with Neptune. 
And then there is Saturn, the opposite counterpart to Neptune, representing fear or the reality 
that life is not perfect and, in many cases, not even fair. Where Neptune is idealistic and guilty of 
wishful thinking, Saturn is realistic, skeptical, controlling, and guilty of ... well, just plain guilt, 
either personally, for failing to do or attain something, or projecting (blaming) that “failure” onto 
others. Saturn represents boundaries, laws, and rules—the very things that help structure society 
into orderly collective behavior when built wisely and according to a sensible, well-thought-out 
plan. If one violates these boundaries, there is usually a consequence, a punishment, that follows. 
Or at least, that’s the way it used to be before the influence of the Aries V ortex began. Now the 
16

--- PAGE 21 ---
Aries V ortex (especially with Saturn in Aries) wants to return to those basic principles, ensuring 
that everyone is “staying in one’s lane” and not crossing boundaries without harsh reprisals. 
Thus, bringing together the two planets ruling “hope and fear” results either in a battle for 
dominance or in a pathway that patiently seeks to integrate the two dynamics in a way that encour -
ages and supports hope while at the same time minimizing the fear (Saturn) of going into the 
unknown (Neptune) or the new (Aries). Everybody wants change (Aries), but nobody wants to 
sacrifice security or the hope for a better future. Everyone wants change to move in a direction 
that is clear, understandable, and easy to adjust, one that provides a sense of self-control and self-
determination. Without these latter qualities, a general sense of confusion arises: a feeling of being 
lost, even helpless, about future prospects. 
This is the downside of Neptune when it struggles to work constructively with Saturn, 
who demands both a realistic goal and an organized plan to achieve it. Without that possibility 
or belief, Neptune’s existence is in danger of falling into a state of hopelessness. One is then 
tempted to give up, surrender, or seek solace in altered states of consciousness. Hence, the rise 
in mental illness and substance abuse to escape (Neptune) the fears generated by the uncertainty 
of reality (Saturn). 
Living in today’s world of epic change is not easy. That is why this period (2026 +/– one year) 
is dubbed “Crazy Times.” 
Yet if one looks at the possibilities of this “New Aira” starting to unfold, one can also train 
the mind to see new possibilities—extraordinary opportunities. Therefore, once Saturn passes by 
as the planet front-running Neptune, the principles of the latter planet will again become visible. 
That is the hope. That is, Saturn is the faster-moving planet and “blocks out” the light of Neptune 
while it approaches and comes into conjunction with Neptune. But after February 20, 2026, Saturn 
begins to separate from Neptune, releasing more of Neptune’s power. Yes, Saturn may still domi -
nate until it finally leaves Aries, the sign also occupied by Neptune, in April 2028. But Neptune’s 
influence grows as Saturn starts its withdrawal from Neptune’s cosmic head and heart. The virtu -
ous Neptunian principle of compassion and care for others begins to express itself again. And as 
Saturn moves from the dominancy of fire-sign Aries into the more comfort- and security-motivated 
sign of Taurus, a return to normalcy—a deportation of “Crazy Times” into something less crazy 
and more humane—is scheduled to commence. In other words, hope about the world and its future 
can and will be re-imagined. A new texture of light, figuratively speaking, will begin to surround 
this planet and its inhabitants. 
Let’s now examine various areas of human activity and the possibilities that may be related to 
the Aries V ortex in 2026 and develop an awareness of how to navigate these challenges. 
17

--- PAGE 22 ---
THE FUNNEL OF THE ARIES VORTEX 
Figure 1: Aries Vortex, illustrating the Saturn–Neptune conjunction at 0° Aries and the Uranus–Pluto 
trine, whose midpoint is also 0° Aries. 
The Aries V ortex is also a funnel, with its apex located at the Earth—specifically, the Earth at its 
vernal equinox point of 0° Aries. 
The broadening sides of this funnel are represented by Uranus and Pluto, which are also in the 
early stages of their ingress into the air signs Gemini and Aquarius. In fact, as they dance across these 
ingress points, they form a 120° trine aspect to one another, which is considered the most favorable 
of all aspects (spatial relationships) between any two planets in the study of astrology. 
The sides of the funnel—Uranus and Pluto—narrow down to their midpoint, which is the apex of 
the funnel: 0° Aries, the beginning of the zodiac, where Saturn and Neptune conjoin in 2025–2026. 
The exact date of their conjunction is February 20, 2026, though they were very close (less than 13′ 
of arc) during the spring and summer of 2025 as well. Thus, to understand the possibilities of this 
historic and unparalleled cosmic arrangement, we need to contemplate the meaning of (1) the Saturn– 
Neptune conjunction, (2) the Uranus–Pluto air trine, and (3) the apex of this funnel, which is 0° Aries. 
We start with this last factor. This particular degree, 0° Aries, aligns with the vernal equinox point 
in Earth’s orbit around the Sun. In that orbital cycle, this degree represents the end of winter and the 
beginning of spring (in the Northern Hemisphere, that is—but in either hemisphere, it marks a time 
when day and night are approximately equal in length, just before shifting toward more of one and 
less of the other). Thus, this degree holds great symbolic meaning. 
It is referred to as “the World Degree,” meaning that longer-term cosmic crossings of this point 
represent times of major change on Earth or in the direction of humankind. The longer the geocosmic 
18

--- PAGE 23 ---
cycle involved, the stronger the transition taking place. Therefore, when Saturn crosses from Pisces into 
Aries every 29 years (approximately), it marks an important shift. When Neptune crosses every 164 
years, it symbolizes an even greater one. When both cross this World Degree at the same time, it signi-
fies an enormous shift, as this type of cosmic event has not occurred in more than 4000 years! It is rare 
and therefore very powerful in its capacity to transform the existing order of life as it has been known. 
The nature of the shift will reflect the characteristics of the planets involved and of the sign Aries. 
For instance, Saturn in Aries (May 25–September 1, 2025, and then again February 14, 2026–April 
13, 2028) displays a strong drive to build something lasting (Saturn)—a legacy—with a sense of great 
urgency and swift effort (Aries). It wants to accomplish something great in a comparatively short time, 
as if time (Saturn) is running out. There is an underlying sense that “time is one’s greatest enemy.” Yet 
in this rush to get things done, one often encounters great resistance to change and delays in meeting the 
goal (Saturn). It can be frustrating when others do not move as quickly as the builder or initiator of the 
effort would like. The Saturn principle may then come into play, punishing anyone who does not follow 
his or her command or who resists being controlled by the driver of the legacy movement. 
Saturn is the principle of control. Aries is associated with the principle of speed and the sense of 
“me first” or independence. This struggle between control and independence can result in clashes— 
even war. Alternatively, it can signify a superhuman feat led by someone who does most of the work 
without relying on others who cannot keep up with the pace needed to complete the project on time. 
In either case, the conjunction of Saturn and Neptune on the World Degree (0° Aries) signals 
that something major is happening. Something on a very large scale is underway, and this change 
will likely come with conflict. Nevertheless, it will probably gather enough momentum to force the 
issue—the change—into something entirely new for humankind to cope with. Perhaps this has to do 
with the technological renaissance now underway, a change in the world’s standard currency, a new 
hierarchy of global leadership, or—most likely—a combination of all of these developments. 
The Age of American Exceptionalism may be ending. However, that does not mean the U.S. is 
becoming a “third world” or failed country. It simply means that other nations, such as China and India, 
are growing faster than America and gaining greater status as world leaders. They are advancing more 
rapidly than the U.S. in many areas, but it doesn’t mean the U.S. is declining—only that others are catch-
ing up and, in some cases, surpassing it in their influence over global affairs that for the past century have 
defaulted to America. The question to ask is not whether America is in decline, but rather: Why are other 
countries becoming more and more influential in world affairs? Why are they choosing to trade more 
with one another and less with the U.S.? And why might much of the world’s capital, anchored in U.S. 
dollars, begin to leave the once-secure investment pastures of America for opportunities in other regions? 
The answers, I believe, lie in the nature of basic relationships: trust versus mistrust. When the 
balance of that dynamic is altered in any relationship, the relationship begins to break down. It takes 
a long time to build trust. It takes only a moment—a sudden decision or change of policy—to tear it 
down, and even longer to repair and rebuild it. 
We will discuss this further when we examine the chart of the United States and its past and cur-
rent leaders. For now, let us deepen our understanding of this magnificent celestial arrangement, the 
Aries V ortex, and the outer planets that make up its funnel and apex. I will cover the aspects in the 
pages that follow, and Pouyan Zolfagharnia will cover their sign placements as we embark upon this 
remarkable journey into the Aries V ortex of 2026. 
19

--- PAGE 24 ---
THE SATURN–NEPTUNE CONJUNCTION 
Well, we know where we’re goin’, 
But we don’t know where we’ve been, 
And we know what we’re knowin’, 
But we can’t say what we’ve seen. 
And we’re not little children, 
And we know what we want. 
And the future is certain— 
Give us time to work it out. 
—David Byrne, “Road to Nowhere,” Little Creatures (Talking Heads, 1985), published by WB 
Music Corp. 
The synodic cycle of Saturn and Neptune—that is, from conjunction to conjunction—lasts 36 
years. However, the frequency of these two planets conjoining at the first degree of Aries is extremely 
rare, given that there are 360° in each planet’s orbit around the Sun. 
In the next chapters, MMA analyst Pouyan Zolfagharnia will interpret what each planet—Saturn 
and Neptune in Aries, Uranus in Gemini, and Pluto in Aquarius—portends. Here, however, we will 
examine the meaning of and the potential world changes suggested by events that occurred during 
past periods of Saturn–Neptune conjunctions. We will also consider the principles of Saturn and 
Neptune, as known through the study of astrology, and review some historical instances that have 
repeated with similar themes when these two planets have conjoined. 
SATURN–NEPTUNE CONJUNCTION OF 1989 
The most recent conjunction of Saturn and Neptune is probably vividly recalled by those who 
were adults 36 years ago. This occurred from March 3 to November 13, 1989, when the two outer 
planets conjoined in a three-passage series due to the retrograde motion of both. The middle cross -
ing took place on June 24. All three passages occurred between 10° and 12° Capricorn. We typically 
allow an orb of approximately one year for events related to a long-term planetary aspect to manifest. 
The first event to note during this period was the environmental disaster in Alaska on March 24, 
1989, when 42,000 cubic meters of crude oil leaked from the Exxon Valdez oil tanker. In the world 
of finance, Neptune is one of the planets associated with crude oil and the ocean. Saturn is associated 
with loss, and Capricorn pertains to the earth. Thus, the combination of these principles fits an epic 
environmental disaster such as an oil spill in the ocean off the coast of Alaska. 
Therefore, in 2025–2026, we must be alert to potential environmental and ecological catastrophes. 
These might involve floods (Neptune) that threaten human life or abnormally hot or cold temperatures 
that damage the growing or harvesting cycles of food. They may also indicate freezing (Saturn) of 
citrus or coffee fields, or outbreaks of disease caused by parasites infesting and destroying crops. 
Next, we note that Apple launched its first portable computer, the Macintosh Portable, on Sep -
tember 20, 1989. This event sparked new creative applications that would influence both the arts and 
the business world, particularly through advances in advertising and marketing. With the world of 
artificial intelligence opening up today, we can anticipate many new innovations and products—much 
20

--- PAGE 25 ---
like the portable Apple computer—that will drive the technological renaissance currently underway. 
Graphic illustrations are likely to be stunning, both in print and in the digital realm. This creative 
force may also extend into the fields of music and film, which are ruled by Neptune. 
However, the most notable event of 1989 was the fall of the Berlin Wall on November 9. This 
was one of the most significant moments in modern history, symbolizing the reunification of East and 
West Germany. It also coincided with the collapse of ideological divisions that had separated Europe 
for decades. This event is highly representative of Saturn and Neptune conjunct in Capricorn, as both 
Saturn and Capricorn rule structures such as walls. They also rule authoritarian systems of govern -
ment in which the state exerts greater control over the lives of its citizens. Neptune’s character is not 
only idealistic but also dissolving—it erodes whatever it touches. In combination with Saturn and 
Capricorn, it dissolved an entire system of government—Russian Communism as it was known at 
the time—and, as a result, the Soviet Union came to an end. Russia’s government imploded as more 
than 300 million new consumers entered the free-market economies of the world. 
This event eventually led to a great global economic boom that lasted through the following 
decade, highlighted by the internet revolution that connected people from around the world. It ulti -
mately transformed how business was conducted—from traditional brick-and-mortar retail to the 
emerging world of online commerce. Barriers dissolved. 
What barriers and boundaries will dissolve in 2026 and beyond? 
THE SATURN–NEPTUNE CONJUNCTION OF 1952–53 
This was another three-passage series, starting on November 21, 1952, and ending on July 22, 
1953. The middle crossing took place on May 17, 1953. 
It was also another monumental and transformative period that exhibited themes related to Saturn 
and Neptune, which conjoined in the sign of Libra. According to Google’s AI, “In 1952, the United 
Kingdom gained Queen Elizabeth II as monarch, and Britain developed its first atomic bomb. Glob-
ally, the Mau Mau Uprising began in Kenya, while King Farouk was ousted in Egypt by a military 
coup. The Great Smog of London killed thousands, and the U.S. conducted its first hydrogen bomb 
test [on November 1 in the Marshall Islands], which strengthened the international supremacy of the 
United States in terms of weapons capability. The U.S. Supreme Court also declared a steel seizure 
by President Truman illegal.” 
Of particular interest here is the Great Smog of London, which killed thousands, for Neptune is 
the planet of fog and smog. With Neptune, it is hard to see—visibility can be distorted and things 
become blurred, both literally and figuratively. But smog can also be poisonous and hazardous to 
one’s health, and Neptune rules poisons. 
Thus, in 2025–2026, we may see instances of deadly fog or smog, or poisons in the atmosphere 
that threaten people’s health, or toxins in food or medical injections used in attempts to assassinate 
leaders (or their enemies). 
It is also noteworthy that the United States Supreme Court intervened in President Harry Tru -
man’s attempt to seize control of the steel industry and declared his action illegal. Today, there are 
cases before the Supreme Court alleging that President Trump engaged in similar unlawful efforts to 
assert control over segments of U.S. industry and business. 
21

--- PAGE 26 ---
Most of this particular instance of Saturn conjunct Neptune took place in 1952–1953, which is 
especially interesting from a historical point of view because that was when (1) Joseph Stalin died 
(March 5, 1953), leading once again to a power struggle and the implosion of the Russian government; 
(2) Vladimir Putin was born (October 7, 1952); and (3) Xi Jinping was born (June 15, 1953). According 
to Google’s AI, the year 1953 also witnessed “… the end of the Korean War, the first Soviet hydrogen 
bomb test, the 1953 coup in Iran, and the execution of the Rosenbergs for espionage in the U.S.” 
This Saturn–Neptune conjunction period also witnessed the peak of the “Red Scare,” when Sena-
tor Joseph McCarthy’s brutal tactics, false accusations, and life-ruining trials were unleashed on 
those he accused of being Communist spies. By 1954, he was condemned by Congress for “conduct 
that tends to bring the Senate into dishonor and disrepute.” Does this sound familiar, given current 
events under Saturn conjunct Neptune? This is a time when witch hunts and attempts to ruin the lives 
of well-known people who disagree with those in authority can take place. Today, this is referred to 
as “hate speech.” Saturn and Neptune together can indicate false accusations and scandals, but truth 
eventually comes to the surface, discrediting the aggressors and restoring the reputations of those 
harmed by such attacks. The problem is that until the truth is known—or agreed upon—both sides 
believe they are being attacked unjustly and seek retribution. 
By the way, the American Heritage Dictionary defines “McCarthyism” as “1. The political prac-
tice of publicizing accusations of disloyalty or subversion with insufficient regard for evidence; and 
2. The use of methods of investigation and accusation regarded as unfair in order to suppress opposi-
tion.” In some respects, this Saturn–Neptune of 2025–2026 may seem like 1952–53 all over again in 
the halls of leading world governments. 
THE SATURN–NEPTUNE CONJUNCTION OF 1917 
1917 was a key year in a crucial decade. This was a decade of change, or, rather, transforma-
tion; of the destruction of what became old orders; and of the replacement of existing currents 
and practices. 
— Jeremy Black, “A Nation Must Think Before It Acts,” Foreign Policy Research Insti-
tute, 2017, www.fpri.org. 
This was a single-passage event that occurred on August 1, 1917. Therefore, approximately one 
year on either side of this date should be allowed for its influence to manifest in human affairs. 
There were three historically significant events in 1917 that relate to themes of today: the Russian 
Revolution, America’s entry into World War I, and the Balfour Declaration with its implications for 
the Middle East. 
The Russian Revolution, also known as the Bolshevik Revolution, stands out because it led to 
the birth of Russian Communism. The Russian government imploded as Czar Nicholas II was over -
thrown, followed by a second revolution that put Vladimir Lenin’s Bolsheviks in power and started a 
civil war. According to Google’s AI, “The Bolsheviks, a Marxist faction led by Vladimir Lenin, seized 
power in the October Revolution of 1917, ending czarist rule and creating the world’ s first socialist 
republic. The party formally changed its name to the Russian Communist Party in 1918, solidifying 
the link between the revolution and Communism.” 
The Balfour Declaration of 1917 was also an important event that relates to what is transpiring 
today. According to Google’s AI, the declaration “…expressed British support for the establishment 
of a ‘national home for the Jewish people’ in Palestine. The declaration also stated that nothing 
22

--- PAGE 27 ---
should be done to prejudice the civil and religious rights of Palestine’ s non-Jewish communities. This 
statement is considered a pivotal moment for Zionism and a foundational document for the state of 
Israel, although it also laid the groundwork for decades of conflict in the region.” 
In 1918, still under the Saturn–Neptune orb of influence, three more major world events occurred. 
The first was the end of World War I. The second was the eruption of the Spanish flu pandemic, which 
killed 50–100 million people worldwide—the deadliest pandemic in history. In addition, a massive 
liberation movement emerged in Ukraine, seeking to separate from the new Russian Bolshevik gov-
ernment in 1917–1918 and beyond. That struggle for Ukrainian independence from Russia continues 
to this day. 
THE SATURN–NEPTUNE CONJUNCTION OF 1882 
The Chinese Exclusion Act was approved on May 6, 1882. It was the first significant law 
restricting immigration into the United States. 
—National Archives, www.archives.gov. 
This was another single-passage conjunction, occurring on May 12, 1882. Therefore, it also 
requires an orb of at least one year when reviewing events related to the themes of this synodic cycle. 
Once again, the Russian government was in a state of turmoil when Emperor Alexander II was 
killed by a bomb near his palace in March 1881—an act falsely blamed on Russian Jews. Pogroms 
then broke out, inflicting suffering on Russian Jewry not seen since the 17th century. The pogroms 
came suddenly and unexpectedly. 
This period exhibited several themes related to what is unfolding in 2026—especially concerning 
Israel and the Jewish people—as well as tensions between China and the United States and restrictive 
immigration policies in the U.S. 
SUMMARY AND COMMENTS 
The basic themes suggested by the principles of Saturn and Neptune have manifested strikingly 
well in world events under their 36-year conjunction cycle throughout history, as exemplified by the 
last four instances. It is remarkable how history has, in a very impressive manner, closely repeated 
these themes—not only in the nature of events but also in the specific locations and regions of the 
world where they occurred. 
Let’s briefly review these recurring themes and consider how they are once again emerging in 
today’s world as Saturn conjoins Neptune from mid-2025 through early 2026. 
• Health and possible epidemics/pandemics: A study I conducted and published in Forecast 
2021 revealed that the dominant geocosmic correlation to the ten deadliest pandemics in his-
tory involved major signatures between Saturn and Neptune. In 1918, this aspect coincided 
with the Spanish flu—the deadliest pandemic in human history. Saturn will conjoin Neptune 
again soon. Thus, it is crucial for the world’s population to closely monitor the development 
of any diseases or viruses that may attack the immune system of a large segment of the global 
population. Individuals with weakened immune systems must take extra precautions, such as 
avoiding gatherings where contagion may spread quickly and making lifestyle choices that 
strengthen rather than stress the immune system (for example, taking nutritional supplements 
and getting extra rest). This aspect can also indicate blood disorders or the growth of tumors 
if not addressed in time. 
23

--- PAGE 28 ---
• Propaganda and the quest for truth: This challenge has been ongoing for the past several 
years, even as Saturn transited Pisces, the sign ruled by Neptune, from 2023 through to early 
2026. Saturn represents the quest for facts, evidence, and, ultimately, truth. Neptune repre -
sents the search for a higher truth, yet it can also symbolize a conscious choice to avoid the 
truth and even to intentionally misstate, misdirect, or avoid relevant facts in order to create a 
false narrative. It can also involve withholding information and evading disclosures that oth-
ers need in order to make intelligent and well-informed choices. In short, this combination 
can be highly manipulative—even to the point of outright deception—to gain an advantage at 
the expense of others, including the collective, which may ultimately suffer as a result. It can 
foster rumors or false narratives that lead to serious problems of trust. It can also be accusatory 
and ruinous to the reputations of innocent people, as seen during the early 1950s under the 
“Red Scare” led by Senator Joseph McCarthy. Here, fear comes into conflict with hope, and 
a pervasive sense of paranoia can grip a nation—or even the world—convincing people that 
the future is bleak and cannot be changed except by following the advice of the propagandists. 
Today, the world is awash in propaganda and false narratives to the point that knowing 
the truth has become a difficult challenge. 
• Errors in data and numbers: Saturn represents data and evidence-based facts and figures. 
Neptune represents errors and omissions regarding hard data. It is therefore not surprising that 
many reports containing detailed “estimates” or calculations have been found to be incorrect 
under this signature. For instance, the U.S. Labor Department announced in August 2025 that 
it had overestimated the number of people employed over several months—via the monthly 
payroll figures—by reporting a whopping 900,000 jobs that didn’t exist! Expect more of these 
types of inaccuracies where numerical data are involved. The result is a misrepresentation of 
reality—another common theme under Saturn–Neptune hard aspects—that challenges inves -
tors to make wise long-term planning decisions that are based on accurate data points. 
• Trust and distrust leading to the dissolution of partnerships and loss of allies: 
When the terms of an understanding between allies change without the willing consent 
of the other party, trust turns to mistrust, and the foundation of the relationship begins to dis-
solve. It takes a long time to regain what has been lost through a perceived violation of trust. 
The U.S. has unilaterally changed the terms of its long-standing agreements with other 
nations—including its closest allies—in matters of trade (tariffs) and military support. This may 
be a major reason why many of America’s former allies are beginning to lose faith in the U.S. 
as the moral leader of the free world. The era of American exceptionalism is faltering, in part 
because of policy changes that affect allies without their willing consent. These relationships are 
no longer perceived as “win–win” and mutually beneficial. Instead, they are seen as win–lose, 
where those who do not comply with such unilateral decisions are the “losers.” Since no one 
wants to be a loser, several former allies of the U.S. now seek to strengthen ties with other nations 
that offer better terms—without new or higher tariffs. Hence, there is a loss of America’s standing 
as the world’s moral and trusted leader. This represents one of the downsides of Saturn conjunct 
Neptune in Aries, forming a hard square aspect to the natal position of Venus in the U.S. chart. 
• Immigration restrictions and isolationism: People wish to enter the U.S. and other nations, 
usually in hopes of a better life and to escape persecution or hardship under the authoritarian 
leadership of their native country. Neptune represents that hope for a better life. But with 
24

--- PAGE 29 ---
Saturn, new laws are often enacted that restrict immigration or make the process of entering 
or remaining in a country extremely difficult. This occurred with the Chinese Exclusion Act 
of 1882 in the U.S., and it appears to be happening again in late 2025 as the U.S. and other 
nations contemplate new and restrictive immigration laws. 
• Kidnappings, poisonings, and assassinations of political or financial opponents: These 
events often increase under hard aspects between Saturn and Neptune. People simply “dis -
appear” or seem to become invisible—no one knows what has happened to them or who 
is responsible for their disappearance. Assassination attempts have already been increasing 
during the current Saturn–Neptune conjunction period, a trend that may continue into 2026. 
• Oil spills and ecological disasters or calamities: Neptune rules water, oceans, and oil. 
Saturn represents loss resulting from catastrophes in these areas. Floods and oil spills can 
cause major losses, both financial and environmental. This pattern has been observed during 
previous Saturn–Neptune conjunctions, most notably with the Exxon Valdez oil spill of 1989. 
• Attacks and persecution of Jews: For some reason, Jews have often been blamed for societal 
problems during Saturn–Neptune conjunctions, subsequently suffering greatly at the hands of 
their oppressors. These acts are the equivalent of “hate crimes,” and once again, the blaming of 
Jews is increasing across many parts of the world. In 2025, Jews are being accused of commit-
ting genocide against Palestinians in Gaza. Polls show that majorities of both Jews in Israel and 
Palestinians in Gaza believe the other side is engaged in genocide. Yet there is no evidence that 
the majority of either group actually supports genocide against the other. 
• Crisis on the seas: Neptune rules the oceans and seas, while Saturn pertains to government. 
Together, they can signify naval or maritime incidents that require government intervention. This 
may be reflected in challenges involving China and Taiwan, or in China’s activities in Cambodia 
and along shipping routes in the South China Sea, where its navy is actively engaged in building 
projects and ports that could be perceived as threats to the U.S. and its allies in the region. 
• Implosion of the Russian government: In the last four instances of Saturn conjunct Neptune, 
the Russian government has undergone major changes within one year. Something similar 
could therefore repeat, with the Russian government falling into turmoil and a new leader 
emerging. If this cycle repeats, it suggests the end of Vladimir Putin’s rule in Russia by 2027. 
Overall, Saturn–Neptune conjunction periods have coincided with times of hysteria, paranoia, 
and fear about an uncertain future. Propaganda has been widespread and has distorted the truth. 
Scapegoats have been blamed and reputations ruined for failures in government and business to 
uphold the moral high ground. Corruption has been rampant, and trust between allies and partners 
has often been damaged to the point that these relationships dissolve. False narratives have led to 
greater polarization and division within societies, even escalating into hate crimes. These are the 
negative ways in which events have unfolded during previous Saturn–Neptune conjunction periods. 
Yet humanity has always recovered from these difficult times, beginning a period of rebuilding that 
led to a decade of peace and prosperity afterwards. 
Can humanity—facing similar Saturn–Neptune challenges today as it has in the past—recover 
from the current dark period of polarity, division, and fear of an uncertain future? Yes. The Uranus– 
Pluto trine that defines the boundary of the Aries V ortex funnel supports this possibility. 
25

--- PAGE 30 ---
URANUS TRINE PLUTO: 
CREATIVE DESTRUCTION VIA TECHNOLOGICAL RENAISSANCE 
By Raymond Merriman, with research assistance from Daniel Gordon 
Jeff Bezos presented an audacious vision to confront one of artificial intelligence’ s most press-
ing challenges: its insatiable energy demands. This proposal, “…which outlines the develop -
ment of gigawatt-scale, solar-powered data centers in space within the next 10 to 20 years, 
marks a significant conceptual leap in sustainable infrastructure for the burgeoning AI indus-
try. Bezos’ s plan not only offers a potential remedy for the environmental strain imposed by 
current AI operations but also provides a fascinating glimpse into the future of humanity’ s tech-
nological expansion beyond Earth. Bezos’ s core message underscored the urgent need for a 
paradigm shift, asserting that the exponential growth of AI is rapidly pushing terrestrial energy 
grids and environmental resources to their breaking point. He highlighted the escalating issues 
of pollution, water scarcity, and increased electricity prices stemming from the construction of 
colossal, ground-based AI data centers.” 
—
“From Earth to Orbit: Jeff Bezos Unveils Radical Space-Based Solution to AI’s 
Looming Energy Crisis,” TokenRing AI, via FinancialContent / WRALTechWire, Octo-
ber 6, 2025, www.financialcontent.com. 
The translator [between Xi Jinping and Vladimir Putin, caught on a hot mic] added, after an 
inaudible passage: “Human organs can be continuously transplanted. The longer you live, the 
younger you become, and (you can) even achieve immortality.” 
—
“Hot Mic Picks Up Putin and Xi Discussing Organ Transplants and Immortality,” 
Reuters (Beijing Newsroom), September 3, 2025. 
INTRODUCTION 
The universe works in mysterious ways. 
This is a concept—actually, more of a belief—held by students of metaphysics and mysticism for 
centuries. It often defies science and logic when the course of human civilization shifts in ways that 
no one could have foreseen in their specifics. As astrologers, we know when such transformational 
changes can take place, but we don’t always know exactly what form they will take or what will cause 
them. For example, during the Capricorn stellium of early 2020—when Jupiter, Saturn, and Pluto 
were joined by Mars in mid-February, all gathering in late Capricorn by mid-March—many mundane 
astrologers forecasted a powerful turning point in global socio-economic and financial conditions. 
Many predicted a recession and economic downturn, which indeed occurred. Some anticipated assas-
sinations of powerful world leaders or threats of major wars—and those, too, came to pass. However, 
to this writer’s knowledge, only one astrologer forecast a deadly generational pandemic that could 
kill millions in 2020. That was André Barbault, who, in 2012, wrote the following: 
“Going back to the pandemics and going back to the past century, the four crises of 1918, 1954, 
1968, and 1982 are obvious, the two considerable being the first, the famous ‘Spanish flu,’which 
is said to have claimed 25 million lives, and the last one marked by AIDS, which is even more 
devastating and continues to be deadly. We may well be in serious danger of a new pandemic at 
the 2020–2021 mark, at the lowest peak of the cyclical index of the 21st century, with the quintet 
26

--- PAGE 31 ---
of outer planets gathered over a hundred degrees, a conjunction Jupiter–Saturn-Pluto can more 
specifically, and even specifically, lend itself to the ‘tissue’ of this imbalance.” 2 
The Aries V ortex is a rare and powerful configuration, first formally introduced in my Forecast 
2023 book, though I initially presented this epochal event to subscribers in 2021. It is expected to 
coincide with a profound and monumental shift in human activity during 2025–2027. As discussed in 
those annual books, this would likely mark the height of conflict, polarity, and division among people 
worldwide over differing beliefs and ideologies, possibly leading to wars. It would also be a time 
when the corruption of truth through propaganda by world leaders could control the narrative to such 
a degree that few would know what was real or false, or where this deception was leading humanity. 
At the same time, inventions and innovations in technology would usher in a new renaissance—a 
technological renaissance—as we had forecast. Humanity would face two parallel realities: one of 
wars and destruction, caused by ruthless leaders seeking to maintain power and control through 
coercion, and another of an incredible new future and work environment, spurred by discoveries and 
applications in technology—what we now recognize as artificial intelligence (AI). 
It would be a time of great stress, division, and even hopelessness about the future felt by the 
masses. However, we also pointed out that 2026 +/− one year would mark the bottom of this abyss, 
after which the arc of division and polarity would begin to bend back toward unity and healing. 
These reflections offered an optimistic vision of the future, based on the approach and subsequent 
separation of the Saturn–Neptune conjunction, the apex of the Aries V ortex. This was a vision—a 
forecast—presented at a time when few believed that the tide of war, polarity, and division could ever 
turn or improve again. 
This worrisome direction was amplified by the election of Donald Trump as U.S. president in 
November 2024. His first term had been polarizing for American citizens as well as for the allies of 
the United States around the world. And his 2024 campaign did very little to assure people that he 
would suddenly change and become a unifying force, either nationally or globally. It was hard to 
imagine how the nation and the world could heal under his presidency, given the extreme divisions 
that his rhetoric—including the vilification of anyone who challenged or resisted him—had only 
intensified. Yet, as stated at the start of this chapter, the universe works in mysterious ways. 
The cosmos had a message for Earthlings, but they were neither seeing nor hearing it through 
the first three quarters of 2025. Yet the cosmic message was still there. As we wrote in last year’s 
Forecast 2025 book: 
For whatever reason many may not understand, Americans have chosen Donald Trump to 
return to the White House and to be the leader of this movement into—and then out of—the 
Aries Vortex. In astrology, it doesn’t matter who the individual leader is. What matters is that 
the nation and world see a path to a successful outcome that eventually brings humanity into a 
greater sense of unity. That is the promise of the Aries Vortex. 
There are two interesting chart patterns. One is a grand air trine between the Sun, Uranus, 
and Pluto, indicating great discoveries and applications in technology. The other is a peculiar 
Yod formation (“Hand of God”) in this and the previous ingress charts. This “Hand of God” 
signature indicates that fate, or karma, may be unfolding, and the destinies of the U.S. and 
other nations are being carried out as a result of (1) its prior actions and (2) the reaction to the 
results of those prior activities. If handled maturely and with a degree of accountability and 
27

--- PAGE 32 ---
acceptance of responsibility, past “offenses” can be rectified. One must be willing to acknowl-
edge one’ s role in harmful historical events. To do so can lead to redemption and forgiveness, 
and all parties can bury the past with a sense of closure and of being heard. The hurtful issues 
can finally be addressed, and the parties can move forward together in a spirit of greater trust. 
It sounds unlikely and perhaps impossible. But the cosmos moves in mysterious ways and offers 
opportunities like this during such rare celestial patterns. 
Then, in October 2025—completely unexpected by anyone entering the year—the historic Gaza 
Peace Agreement came about, led by none other than President Donald Trump and besieged Israeli 
leader Benjamin Netanyahu. This unforeseen historic event marked the beginning of efforts to end 
eight decades of hostilities between Israel and its militant neighbors, Hamas and Hezbollah. It was a 
huge event—the beginning of a whole new world, one that finally holds the prospect of peace within 
its vision. Did anyone expect peace to break out in 2025? Yet this event, which could change the course 
of history, fits perfectly with the cosmic principles underlying the Aries V ortex, as outlined last year. 
So, let us now examine the properties of the Aries V ortex further—and, in particular, the boundar-
ies that make up the funnel of the Aries V ortex, which are Uranus and Pluto in Gemini and Aquarius, 
respectively. As stated before, these two superpowers are in a 120° waxing (opening) trine aspect 
to one another, which by itself represents a long-term planetary-pair cycle ranging from 112 to 142 
years in duration, due to Pluto’s erratic orbit. Yet what makes this Aries V ortex funnel so remarkable 
is that, at the midpoint of its Uranus–Pluto boundaries lies the Saturn–Neptune conjunction serving 
as the apex of the vortex, which in turn forms a double sextile to both Uranus and Pluto, as shown 
in Figure 1 (in the Aries V ortex section of this book). So far, we have focused mainly on the Saturn– 
Neptune conjunction, but equally important is the Uranus–Pluto trine, the midpoint of which is also 
the 0° Aries world point, occupied by Saturn and Neptune. 
How rare is this planetary configuration involving the four outermost planets of our solar system 
in such an aspect formation? We have no record of it ever having occurred before. Therefore, we 
will explore what it portends by (1) applying basic astrological principles to both planets (Uranus 
and Pluto), as well as to their aspect (waxing trine) and the fact that they are in air signs, and (2) 
examining parts of this configuration that have occurred in the past to see whether any themes relate 
to current times while also opening up ideas about future possibilities. Specifically, we will examine 
historical periods when either Saturn or Neptune was at the midpoint of a Uranus–Pluto trine, since 
there are no instances when both were at the midpoint. In this matter, astrological researcher Daniel 
M. H. Gordon
1 of Oregon (xstarian@gmail.com) conducted a special in-depth study at our request. 
We will share many of his fascinating findings in this chapter. 
THE ASTROLOGY OF URANUS AND PLUTO 
Uranus and Pluto share many themes in common. For instance, both are strongly correlated with 
major changes and disruptions in life. The difference lies in the pace of that change. With Uranus, 
it is usually sudden and unexpected—spreading like wildfire, suddenly out of control. In the case of 
Pluto, however, the pace of change is much slower, gradually building over time until the collective 
realizes that circumstances must change. The old ways become obsolete and no longer serve a valued 
purpose as they once did. 
One may think of Uranus as revolutionary and new—indicative of a dramatic change that is 
likely to be resisted by those in control. Change comes too quickly for the masses to adjust easily. It 
28

--- PAGE 33 ---
is like a storm appearing out of nowhere and wreaking havoc. With Pluto, the process is more like 
rolling thunder—darkening clouds gathering on the horizon and slowly moving closer and closer. 
You sense something powerful is building, readying to unleash its force. 
Whereas the motivation behind Uranus is often revolution, the impulse behind Pluto is reform 
or transformation. With Uranus, there is a thrust toward something totally new and different, often 
driven by an urge for greater freedom and liberation from real or perceived oppression. In the case of 
Pluto, the desire is not so much for something new as it is to remove or terminate something old. Its 
time has come to an end. It is time to move on and build something different, more functional, or at 
least repair that which is no longer working as it should or once did. In this distinction, Uranus rep -
resents something young—perhaps even experimental or original. Pluto, on the other hand, pertains 
to something old, even obsolete, that has reached the point of decline and diminishing returns for the 
well-being of the masses. 
MMA Market Analyst Gianni Di Poce likes to refer to the integration of these two principles as 
a force of “creative destruction.” This is an apt description because, in many ways, Uranus is indeed 
creative. At the very least, it is innovative and original. But to get there—with Pluto involved—also 
requires an act of destruction or termination. Through a process of elimination and release, the need 
arises to create something new and more relevant. 
Pluto is driven to dismantle that which is no longer functioning well. Perhaps it pertains to some-
thing that has rotted or been allowed to decay—such as an old house, building, or even a system of 
governance. Yet if the powers in control refuse to let it go and insist there is still value in the old ways, 
a natural conflict arises between the young (Uranus) and the old (Pluto, in this case). It becomes a 
generational struggle for power (Pluto) that requires a revolution to overthrow and pave the way for 
a new vision and future to emerge (Uranus). Thus, under the favorable trine aspect, this may involve 
innovation and new discoveries that overwhelm existing systems to such an extent that it becomes 
obvious that new ways must be established. There arises an awareness that there is a much better way 
to do things than before—an organic process of change. 
This is the nature of creative destruction. It is also the driving force behind what becomes a 
technological renaissance. We see this unfolding today with the explosion of AI, which has quickly 
reached a level of development where it can now perform many of the routines once carried out by 
the labor force. The work environment is a perfect example of the creative destruction taking place 
across societies worldwide—an evolution that is giving rise to the technological renaissance we 
have been alerting readers to over the past five years. It has been well underway since Pluto entered 
Aquarius in March 2023, though it is still in its early stages. 
As a side note, this Uranus–Pluto trine can also provide a cosmic basis for healing the genera -
tional wounds that have persisted since the Uranus–Pluto square of 2012–2015. It was around that 
time that younger generations rebelled (sometimes violently) against older generations, in what later 
came to be called “cancel culture.” In this way, the younger generation refused to allow their elders 
to share experience or wisdom that might temper their disruptive activities. If a speaker from an older 
generation appeared on a college campus, students might force the speaker off the stage, canceling 
the event they deemed offensive based on generational identity or other aspects of “identity politics” 
they opposed. This was a major contributing factor to the polarity and division that led the world 
into the abyss of today’s Aries V ortex. But these wounds can now be addressed and healed now that 
Uranus and Pluto have moved beyond their difficult waxing square into a more harmonious trine. 
29

--- PAGE 34 ---
There are other sectors of human activity that are likely to be affected by the themes associated 
with both Uranus and Pluto, as well as by the air signs they are just entering. The signs are important 
because Uranus rules Aquarius and therefore disposes Pluto, which now occupies Aquarius through 
2043. Thus, the sign Aquarius—and its ruler Uranus—will stand out for several years. In fact, Uranus 
will be in Gemini, another air sign compatible with Aquarius, through 2032. Therefore, the period 
2025–2032 will be especially characterized by themes of renaissance, technology, innovation, dis -
covery, and revolution. However, there are other themes to consider related to Uranus and Aquarius, 
colored by Pluto’s presence—especially with both planets in air signs, an element associated with 
knowledge and original thought. 
Consider that Uranus and Aquarius are both connected with outer space, the realm beyond Earth. 
The importance of exploring and finding applications for outer space is about to explode, largely 
because of the “environmental strain imposed by current AI operations,” as outlined by Jeff Bezos. 
The energy demands required to develop new data centers on Earth have grown as “the exponential 
growth of AI is rapidly pushing terrestrial energy grids and environmental resources to their breaking 
point.” This development complements the concept of creative destruction, which leads to the next 
level of today’s technological renaissance. 
The next step in humanity’s evolution and survival will involve the exploration—and eventually 
the mastery—of outer space, one step at a time. Each step will usher in new discoveries, innovations, 
and insights into this vast realm. With Uranus in Gemini and trine to Pluto in Aquarius, this configu-
ration can guide humanity into a new world of discovery, as illustrated on the inside front cover of 
this year’s book. It will stimulate learning how to utilize outer space more constructively in the next 
stage of humanity’s growth. Becoming an astronaut, or participating in the exploration of outer space 
through commercial or governmental ventures, may rapidly become an exciting profession in which 
demand and compensation could grow immensely over the next six years. This is also an area likely 
to offer excellent investment opportunities. 
As humans expand into outer space to address their burgeoning energy needs, efforts will also 
intensify to extend life itself. Here we have Pluto, the planet of death and rebirth, combining with 
Uranus, the planet of youth and technology, uniting their forces to explore the possibility of immor -
tality. Our current tech visionaries believe the human body is a flawed mechanism in need of a tech-
nological upgrade. Why should it decay, grow old, and die in physical pain? The idea that humans 
can live longer and better through technological advances—such as artificial limbs and decoding the 
human genome to eliminate diseases—is a core tenet of the modern intellectual and cultural move -
ment known as transhumanism. According to Gemini AI, “This perspective is driven by the desire to 
use technology to overcome human limitations, particularly aging and mortality.” This is also a per-
fect illustration of how the themes of Uranus and Pluto in an air trine can operate. Uranus and Pluto 
represent not only the process of creative destruction but also the impulse to discover and invent new 
processes that extend life and enhance well-being as humanity ages. 
30

--- PAGE 35 ---
Figure 2: Uranus trine Pluto, July 18, 2026 (Aries chart). Also, Jupiter forms a trine to Neptune, and 
all four planets are in a tight configuration of successive sextiles to one another. 
URANUS–PLUTO TRINES IN HISTORY 
The forthcoming Uranus–Pluto trine will unfold in a five-passage series of exact waxing trines 
on July 18, 2026; November 29, 2026; June 15, 2027; January 13, 2028; and May 10, 2028. It should 
also be noted that Uranus and Pluto came within 7′ of one degree of an exact trine in September 2025, 
which is close enough to generate a cosmic influence. Thus, one can assume that the orb of influence 
of this remarkable outer-planet aspect will be in effect from 2025 through 2028. 
For reference, the last time these two planets were in an opening trine was during the three-
passage series from November 9, 1884, through September 21, 1885. It is interesting to note that in 
that instance, both planets were also in the early degrees of air signs (Uranus in Libra and Pluto in 
Gemini). According to Daniel Gordon’s research, “In 1884, the United States was in a period of its 
‘long depression,’ and yet this led to the Second Industrial Revolution. This also coincided with the 
rise of industrial Japan, accompanied by social change. Meanwhile, at the Berlin Conference, the 
European powers carved up Africa into colonies under their rule, developing new trade routes and 
new trading conditions, which led to an immediate economic addition to the asset sheet of the king.” 
31

--- PAGE 36 ---
The time before that was a seven-passage series spanning from August 11, 1770, to April 
29, 1773. This instance involved earth signs (Taurus and Capricorn), which are relevant to the 
masses rebelling against governments whose policies of control were viewed as oppressive. In the 
American colonies, early settlers protested corrupt officials, heavy taxes, and unfair fees. The con -
flict—and the subsequent executions of several Regulators—highlighted the growing tensions and 
resistance to British authority in the colonies. In 1773 America, for instance, the major event was 
the Boston Tea Party, when, according to Gemini AI, “Colonists dumped British tea into Boston 
Harbor to protest the Tea Act, a British law that granted a tea monopoly to the East India Com -
pany and imposed a tax on tea without colonial representation.” This is another classic instance 
combining themes related to Uranus (rebellion, disruption, desire for equality, and independence 
from authority) and Pluto (taxation). “Taxation without representation” remains a rallying cry for 
citizens protesting taxation initiatives by the U.S. government without the vote of its citizenry. It is 
likely a theme that will come to the forefront in the 2026 midterm elections—assuming elections 
take place as scheduled. 
There are many prior examples of Uranus in a waxing trine to Pluto, several of which demon -
strate major conflicts between coercion, oppression, and the drive of the masses to free themselves 
from tyrannical forces through rebellion. One such example is the nine-passage series from 1514 
through 1518, which resulted in sweeping transformations across culture, government, and religion 
in Europe. Once again, according to AI, “The period from 1514 to 1518 was a time of significant 
military conflict, the start of the Protestant Reformation, and continued European exploration. Key 
events included the start of the Ottoman-Mamluk War and Martin Luther’ s posting of the Ninety-
five Theses.” 
Uranus–Pluto trine periods have also brought forth important inventions that have had a positive, 
transformational effect on societies throughout the world, as one would expect from a trine (favor -
able) aspect. 
In his insightful research, in which he also analyzed the waning (closing) trine of Uranus and 
Pluto, Gordon identified many recurring themes that astrology would ascribe to these two planets, 
especially when both are in air signs. He notes the following: 
There is a disrupted central authority in each of these periods, whether dynastic, papal, or 
imperial. 
Social relationships through economic behavior show that trade routes and economic systems 
change and adapt to new conditions in a positive way. 
These are often crisis periods of change to social institutions and the social contract. In many 
instances, this is a form of war because those with money and power do not willingly give it up. The 
social contract changes when the government changes. 
Taxation, monetary systems, and trade routes all change during these time bands.
 Currency debasement and the collapse of monetary systems raise questions about where to store 
wealth. 
Each time, there seems to be a generational change from the old way of doing things to a new 
way because of economic forces. 
32

--- PAGE 37 ---
In this reshaping and change of power, there is often a military element, the success of which is 
based upon technological advancement. Some people preach separateness, and some preach one -
ness. Those preaching separateness become the dysfunctional ones. 
Do any of these themes during Uranus–Pluto trine periods sound familiar today? Gordon also 
points out, “An interesting side note is that from 740 until the coming 2026, there has been only one 
instance when the air trine between Uranus and Pluto (including both waxing and waning) did not 
involve the sign of Aquarius. That was when Uranus in Libra was trine to Pluto in Gemini in 1884– 
85. All other times, the sign of Aquarius held either Uranus or Pluto.” 
Indeed, if history is not repeating itself under Uranus–Pluto trines in air signs, it sure sounds like 
it rhymes. 
SATURN AT THE MIDPOINT OF URANUS AND PLUTO 
Now comes a very interesting study related to Gordon’s research on historical periods when Sat-
urn, and then Neptune, were at the midpoint of the Uranus–Pluto trine. 
In the current alignment, Saturn and Neptune are both at the midpoint of the Uranus–Pluto trine, 
but we have no historical instances to draw from in which both planets were in a double sextile simul-
taneously. Still, studying those periods when either Saturn or Neptune was at the midpoint between 
Uranus and Pluto provides very interesting insights that relate to current times. 
Saturn was posited at the midpoint of Uranus and Pluto, while sextile to each, in 482, 543, 
618, 907, 1255, and will be again in 2025–2026. During these periods, Gordon observed, “…old 
government systems were weakening and collapsing, and new systems were rising but fragmented. 
Laws were being reformed, reordered, and rewritten, and new laws were passed after a period of 
chaos. Money and the economy were usually disrupted because the trade networks and routes col -
lapsed and needed rebuilding. The disruption to human society was noted as a turning point when 
old systems were hanging onto new systems, but the old systems could not remain and were reborn 
into the new system.” 
Once again, this aligns with many of today’s global themes as we enter 2026. Saturn rules laws 
and governments. With Pluto, new rules (laws) are reordered and rewritten in an effort to end chaos 
(Uranus). Trade routes could very well be disrupted, as we see today through the use of tariffs as 
weapons to pressure other nations into meeting specific demands. And yet today we also see the 
advent of new technologies (Uranus) forcing out old systems of governance and practice as new 
systems are created. It has happened before, according to Gordon, and we are seeing it happen again 
today with Saturn at the midpoint of the Uranus–Pluto trine. 
33

--- PAGE 38 ---
Figure 3: Saturn (and Neptune) forming a double sextile to Uranus and Pluto, in effect 
from August 2025 to March 2026. This is an Aries chart set for August 11, 2025. Following 
this period, Saturn begins to separate from its sextiles to Uranus and Pluto, leaving 
Neptune to maintain its double sextile to Uranus and Pluto through 2028. 
One point to understand is that, as the midpoint of two other outer planets in a favorable sextile 
to each other, Saturn draws favorable power from both Uranus and Pluto. The government or author-
ity (Saturn), or the entity that controls the situation, receives the combined blessing of power and 
innovation provided by Uranus and Pluto. In today’s case, however, Saturn is in Aries, where it can 
be coercive and demanding, imposing its will over the masses, who do not enjoy that kind of power 
and control. That control could begin to wane as Saturn moves out of the double-sextile formation 
and the collective once subject to its controlling influence begins to regain its power. 
As long as Saturn in Aries (in today’s case) remains at the midpoint of the Uranus–Pluto trine, the 
central authority will have its way—for better or worse. In many cases, conditions in society could 
actually improve if that authority focuses on building enduring structures and systems. Authorities 
may be dominating, but they can also provide many benefits that endure over time. 
NEPTUNE AT THE MIDPOINT OF URANUS AND PLUTO 
Most relevant to today’s sudden swing toward peace and the end of hostilities in the Middle East 
is Neptune, located at the midpoint of the Uranus–Pluto trine and sextile to each. 
34

--- PAGE 39 ---
There have been three historical periods when Neptune was at the midpoint of a Uranus–Pluto 
trine, as examined in Gordon’s study. These were 476–480, 991, and now again, 2023–2027. With 
Saturn, one would expect attention to focus on governance—and indeed, changes in governance were 
pronounced, as shown in the previous paragraphs. But with Neptune, one would expect major transi-
tions involving religion, the arts, and efforts to end wars and usher in prolonged periods of peace. 
In Gordon’s words, regarding the highlights of these three periods: “In each of these times in 
history, there was a decline of the dominant power and a rise of local powers with the local actors: a 
trend to decentralization. There arose new social structures, technology, networks, and trade routes, 
even while the old ones collapsed. Knowledge shifted to new physical centers of collection and hold-
ing. There were new art forms developed in cultural crossroad areas built of old traditions and new 
technology. Finally, religion spread during these times of political change and fragmentation.” 
The 476–480 period marked the fall of the Roman Empire—one of the greatest military and 
governmental eras in human history—which began around 750 BC. The year AD 476 is often used 
by historians to mark the transition from antiquity to the Middle Ages in Europe. In other words, this 
was a profoundly important turning point in world history. Its themes resonate with today’s possible 
decline of American exceptionalism as the world’s leading power and the concurrent rise of emerging 
leaderships in the Far East, particularly China and India. 
The 991 period was also interesting. The “Peace of God” was enacted at the Council of Char -
roux just before then. It was a plan aimed at reducing feudal warfare by limiting private wars to 
certain times of the year and by providing protection for noncombatants. The Peace of God move -
ment relied on the threat of excommunication to enforce its decrees. The Church was all-powerful. 
Also of interest is that in 992 there were notable celestial events: historical records describe major 
auroras observed in Korea, Germany, and Ireland, likely caused by a strong solar event, according to 
Gemini AI. We note that powerful solar storms are erupting now as we leave 2025 and enter 2026. 
Such explosive solar activity tends to correlate with strong changes on Earth—in weather, climate, 
governments, and financial markets alike. 
We have only two instances to draw from in the past two millennia. And keep in mind that neither 
Uranus, Neptune, nor Pluto was even known to humans during those times. Yet we can apply our 
understanding of these cosmic themes to what we observe today. Let’s start with Neptune, since it 
is the midpoint between Uranus and Pluto. Furthermore, these are the three outermost planets in our 
solar system, with the longest orbits around the Sun. Thus, we might assume that this could be con -
sidered the most important configuration of all during the lifetime of most people reading this book. 
We begin with the idea that Neptune is the planet of peace. Planets represent actions. They are 
more powerful than signs, which represent attitudes and therefore color the actions of the planets 
transiting through them. In this case, Neptune seeks to bring peace to Aries, the sign whose attitude 
is basically “me first” and “I will do what I want, and you won’t stop me.” Aries is ruled by Mars, 
the god of war. So here comes Neptune, the god(dess) of peace, entering the sign ruled by the god of 
war, and saying something like: “I want you to de-escalate your aggression and not be so combative. 
I want you to pull back and use your warrior mentality in the effort to bring peace to the world.” Wars 
that begin—or are underway—when Neptune enters Aries tend to wind down. 
35

--- PAGE 40 ---
Figure 4: Neptune forming a double sextile to Uranus and Pluto (2025–2028), as Saturn begins to sepa-
rate. This is an Aries chart constructed for July 25, 2026. Neptune is the planet of peace initiatives. 
Wars are high on the agenda today because Saturn is in Aries and at the midpoint of Uranus and 
Pluto, sextile to each. Saturn in Aries—warlike and bullying—is more akin to Uranus (revolution) 
and Pluto (coercion and reform) than to Neptune (withdrawal and the search for peace). Thus, Saturn 
is presently drawing more from its sextiles to Uranus and Pluto than from Neptune. It conveys an 
attitude of “peace through strength” rather than one of diplomacy, trust, and goodwill. 
But what happens when Saturn begins to separate from its double sextile to Uranus and Pluto 
after March 2026, while Neptune remains there for another two years? Neptune then starts to draw the 
benefits of power from its sextiles to Uranus and Pluto. This creates an entirely different dynamic— 
one that bodes well for efforts to end wars and attain peace on Earth. This is the cosmic correlation 
to the sudden (Uranus) emergence of peace in the Middle East after eight decades of hostility and 
conflict, along with an effort to rebuild (Pluto) Gaza as a seaside (Neptune) destination for future 
world travelers. 
This is the peak of the Aries V ortex, and possibly the nadir of the abyss of hatred and division. 
It symbolizes the pendulum’s swing from discord and conflict to a period of ten years or more of 
relative peace and rebuilding. This is why I have remained optimistic about the Aries V ortex and 
36

--- PAGE 41 ---
where it will lead humanity. I don’t know how—no one knew how—this would manifest, espe -
cially under the polarizing leadership style of President Donald Trump. But here it is. He gets 
the credit, as it was his individual force of personality, projecting “peace through strength,” that 
brought Hamas and other terrorist organizations to the peace table and started the process of end -
ing the Middle East conflicts over Israel’s right to exist. Love him or hate him, he deserves the 
credit for this manifestation of the positive dynamic underlying the Aries V ortex—something few 
believed possible until now. 
SUMMARY 
Just as important as the Saturn–Neptune conjunction at 0° Aries in the remarkable Aries V ortex 
configuration is the Uranus–Pluto trine, the midpoint of which is also at 0° Aries. In other words, 
0° Aries forms the apex of both the Uranus–Pluto trine, which defines the boundaries of the funnel, 
and the Saturn–Neptune conjunction, which defines its apex. There has never been a configuration 
like this in recorded history—at least none known to us—involving all four of the outermost planets 
converging at 0° Aries, the starting point of the zodiac, also known as the “world point.” 
When we break down each of these components in terms of their correlation to historical events 
and trends—and attempt to interpret their meaning according to astrological themes and principles— 
we find many possible manifestations as we enter 2026. There are so many cosmic dynamics con -
verging within a short period that it can seem overwhelming, both in terms of individual experience 
and in terms of future possibilities for humanity and the planet itself. Nevertheless, the following is 
a partial list of major points that I believe will define human activity over the next year, especially 
those associated with the air trine aspect between Uranus and Pluto: 
1. Efforts to usher in a new era of peace on Earth lasting at least ten years 
2. Outer space exploration and development to meet the world’s increasing need for energy, 
which is rapidly approaching overload on Earth 
3. The quest for immortality and the extension of human life and physical well-being 
4. New cures for diseases such as various forms of cancer 
5. Creative destruction leading to the overhaul of obsolete systems and structures 
6. A technological renaissance transforming the labor market and creating new career opportu-
nities related to outer space 
7. Decentralization and the collapse of old systems of government 
8. Revolutions inspired by innovation rather than overthrow or rebellion 
9. Debasement and transformation of currencies 
10. Wealth seeking new places to flow, leading to major economic reforms and the creation of 
new trade routes 
11. Laws reformed, reordered, and rewritten as new legislation follows a period of chaos 
12. A revival of religion and renewed interest in both traditional and emerging faiths 
37

--- PAGE 42 ---
This is truly a “New Aira” humanity is moving into. And the chaos accompanying these vast 
social, cultural, economic, and governmental changes will require flexibility and a willingness to 
adapt. There are parallel realities unfolding: one driven by forces of destruction and resistance to 
change (i.e., wars), and the other by the power of creation and invention through a technological 
renaissance that will eventually lead to an economic boom—though likely following an economic 
bust. The danger of taking on too much risk is great, but the opportunity for success through well-
considered risk-taking is even greater. Uranus represents risk, while Pluto signifies the potential for 
great loss. Yet, they are in a favorable trine aspect, which bodes well for a successful renewal—even 
if a major financial downturn occurs along the way. 
References 
1. Gordon, Daniel. Personal email correspondence (xstarian@gmail.com), September 2025. 
2. Barbault, André. “Survey of Pandemics” (Aperçu sur les Pandémies), 2012. Originally published at 
www.andrebarbault.com. 
38

--- PAGE 43 ---
THE CHART OF MODERN MANKIND 
Freedom’ s just another word 
for nothin’ left to lose. 
—Janis Joplin, “Me and Bobby McGee,” written by Kris Kristofferson, 1971. 
Last year, we introduced the “Horoscope of Modern Mankind,” which was presented by Claude 
Weiss at the MMA 2024 Investment Retreat, held September 19–22, 2024, in Lake Bled, Slovenia. 
This chart was originally proposed in 1992 by Eric Alan Meese in the magazine Welcome to Planet 
Earth, formerly published by astrologer Mark Lerner. We return to this chart again, as it shows further 
astrological developments supporting our view of the Aries V ortex and its potential for the ongoing 
monumental transformations taking place at this time in the history of humankind. 
The chart of Modern Mankind is constructed on the last conjunction of the longest planetary 
synodic cycle known, which is between Neptune and Pluto. This conjunction cycle lasts between 492 
and 496 years and last occurred on April 30, 1892 (the third of three passes). Since the exact moment 
of that conjunction cannot be defined—because Neptune and Pluto move so slowly that they can 
occupy the same degree and minute for days—the new moon that preceded this conjunction is used 
as the starting point. That new moon was also a solar eclipse and thus magnified the importance of 
this cosmic event, which occurred on April 26. 
The time used for the advent of the chart of Modern Mankind is the solar eclipse of April 26, 
1892, at 9:47 PM GMT, just before the third and final passage of Neptune conjunct Pluto. The time 
of this eclipse is known to the exact minute and hence serves the purpose of a timed chart very well. 
The location chosen for this chart is Greenwich, England, since it serves as the prime meridian and 
reference point for world time (GMT). However, the chart could be relocated to any other location 
and the angles adjusted accordingly, which might be useful when identifying regions over which the 
outer planets transit the chart’s angles over time. For our purposes here, we will stay with GMT. 
Note that at the time of the solar eclipse on April 26, 1892, the Sun and Moon (i.e., new moon) 
were in early Taurus, in opposition to Uranus in early Scorpio (see the chart below). This is important 
because Pluto will be transiting in a T-square to the natal Uranus and the Sun–Moon opposition in this 
chart from February 8, 2026, to February 6, 2028. 
With transits of Pluto, we have one basic rule: no one escapes unscathed under a hard Pluto 
transit to a natal point. In this case, the transit of Pluto relates to a global need to address a difficult 
situation confronting humankind. It won’t be easy. Something has to end in order for something 
new and better to begin. A major transformation for humanity—or the Earth itself—is called for, as 
threats to its existence, the lives of many people, or its basic economic or social stability may be at 
risk. This could be due to a natural calamity such as an earthquake, tsunami, hurricane, or volcanic 
eruption. It could be due to some kind of advancing existential threat, perhaps related to global warm-
ing or climate change. It could be in the form of a threat to humankind from a powerful leader who 
has the capability to put the lives of millions at risk. Or it could be a financial crisis, given that Pluto 
(planet of debt, deficits, downgrades, and defaults) is in the second house of finances, while the natal 
Moon—which rules the eighth house (financial crisis and debt) of this chart—is also involved. With 
natal Uranus activated, it indicates that the masses of humanity are in a mood to rebel or revolt in 
39

--- PAGE 44 ---
order to gain greater freedoms, rights, and even power. But it could also indicate that a world leader 
“loses his mind” and simply detaches from reality, putting others at great risk through a terrorist act. 
In other words, this can portend a very dangerous cosmic development, and it would be wise for 
leaders of the world to recognize when such a person or situation might present an existential threat 
to the world. 
Figure 5: Chart of Modern Mankind, “born” April 26, 1892, when Neptune conjoined Pluto, 
as seen from London, UK. Note: not only did Neptune conjoin Pluto on the Descendant, but 
the solar eclipse preceding this date (when the Sun and Moon conjoined at 7° Taurus) was 
also in opposition to Uranus at 3° Scorpio. 
With Pluto as the transiting planet, there may be an advance warning before an event erupts. 
Pluto events do not happen suddenly, although Uranus transits do, and both planets will be high -
lighted during the next two years. Readers must understand that with any powerful transit like this 
one involving Pluto, there are many ways an event may actually unfold. And if specific dangers are 
recognized before a major crisis erupts, changes can usually be made to prevent or minimize their 
impact. Pluto (and all planets) is an indicator of potential events, such as threats, but these do not 
necessarily manifest if conscious choices are made to express the positive potentials of the cosmic 
signatures involved. Instead of an actual crisis, Pluto can symbolize an awareness to make a major 
change in behavior before further troubles arise. Let’s hope our world leaders are astute and wise 
enough to spot a major threat to the masses if it arises, as indicated by this chart, and do something 
40

--- PAGE 45 ---
about it before any calamity occurs. Our duty as astrologers is to point out the timing of such pos -
sibilities, both positive and negative, but with the understanding that one can transform into the other. 
The outcome depends as much, if not more, on the choices humans make as it does on geocosmic 
aspects being causal. They correlate with human activity but are not to be considered purely causal. 
Figure 6: Transits of August 11, 2026, to the chart of Mankind. Note the transit of Pluto forming a 
T-square with Uranus opposite the Sun–Moon conjunction in the natal chart, while transiting Uranus 
conjoins the natal Descendant, Neptune, and Pluto, and forms a trine to transiting Pluto. 
It would be enough to warrant our attention if Pluto were the only outer-planet transit active dur-
ing the next two years. However, that is not the case. All the outermost planets will be activated in 
2026 and even into 2027–2028. Uranus, for example, will be in early Gemini, transiting the Descen-
dant as well as the Neptune–Pluto conjunctions in the seventh house. This is quite fascinating because 
as Uranus, the disruptor, conjoins this powerful natal angular point, and also Neptune and Pluto, from 
July 24, 2026, through April 17, 2028, it will be forming a trine to Pluto in the skies. That is, transiting 
Uranus will conjoin Mankind’s Neptune and Pluto, while transiting Pluto will also be in a trine aspect 
with Neptune and Pluto in the Mankind chart. So, this is not a harbinger of total destruction or annihi-
lation but rather a symbol of death and rebirth. Once again, it is the theme of creative destruction— 
the possibility that long-established directions and traditions of the human experience are ending, but 
as a result of something new being created (Uranus). We may think we have a clear vision of what 
this means, but with Uranus, we don’t really, for Uranus pertains to the unexpected and something 
41

--- PAGE 46 ---
completely new. But as with Uranus, the natal planet, the transit of Uranus also relates to the drive of 
the masses to attain freedom and new rights. With Uranus, the theme in an individual’s chart is that 
of a new lifestyle. But in this case, it is a new direction (lifestyle) for humanity as a whole, not just 
for certain individuals. One idea that comes to mind again is the exploration—and maybe even the 
settlement—somewhere outside of Earth, in outer space. 
Transiting Saturn and Neptune will also be important in early 2026, as both will transit over the 
I.C. (bottom) of this chart. Saturn is especially noteworthy, for as it crosses the nadir (I.C.) of a chart, 
it symbolizes the end and beginning of a new cycle in the life of the entity. Generally speaking, this 
represents the bottom of the external part of one’s existence and the uphill climb to greater success 
and accomplishment over the next 17 years, until Saturn reaches the midpoint between the M.C. and 
Ascendant (around the middle of the eleventh house). This also bodes well for the future once Saturn 
crosses that threshold of Mankind’s nadir. 
In the final analysis, though, it is the transits of Pluto and Uranus that seem most critical to under-
stand and prepare for. It may be helpful to review some of our thoughts about this Chart of Mankind, 
as given last year, in order to further grasp the significance of what is about to be disrupted, brought 
to an end, and then reborn. As stated in Forecast 2025, “Another factor of the Chart of Modern Man-
kind that commands attention is the Solar Eclipse at 7° Taurus, in opposition to Uranus at 3° Scor -
pio. This represents a conflict between the wish for security and peace (Taurus) as well as financial 
opportunity (also Taurus) against the presence of strong forces of chaos and revolution (Uranus) that 
can put the lives of many in physical or financial danger (Scorpio). Taurus wants to build and enjoy 
security. But Scorpio (with Uranus involved) has an urge to tear down and rebuild all over again. 
Traditions (Taurus) can be upended by these revolutions and can disregard norms and customs that 
hold societies together.” This is the dynamic of human activity and civilization up until this point that 
Pluto is about to transform. 
42

--- PAGE 47 ---
PLUTO IN AQUARIUS: REVOLUTIONARY CHANGE 
by Pouyan Zolfagharnia, MMA Analyst 
Pluto’s slow, shadowed journey at the edge of our solar system mirrors its power to shape the 
deep currents of collective change. The farther a planet lies from the Sun, the greater its impact 
on mundane affairs. After fifteen years in Capricorn, Pluto began its twenty-year passage through 
Aquarius in March 2023. With a 248-year orbit, Pluto’s movements are rare markers of civilizational 
turning points. Where data cannot reach, astrology becomes our lens for interpreting how this shift 
may reverberate through markets and society alike. 
Pluto governs transformation, regeneration, and power—the unseen forces behind debt, taxation, 
interest rates, and the mechanisms through which governments and central banks wield control. It 
is the planet of change, separation, death and rebirth, inheritance, windfall gains, destruction, and 
renewal. Ray calls it the planet of the four D’s: debt, deficits, downgrades, and defaults. Its energy is 
immense, catalytic, and often explosive. I consider it the higher octave of Mars; therefore, warfare 
and destruction usually accompany its initial ingress into a new sign (as seen with Russia–Ukraine 
and Israel–Hamas). 
Aquarius, by contrast, embodies humanity, equality, intellect, invention, and revolt. It is the sign 
of discovery, exploration, electricity, uranium, technology, forceful intervention, revolution, and the 
collective will. It represents the masses—the 99% of the population that controls 1% of the world’s 
wealth (in opposition to Leo, the 1% that controls 99% of global capital). With Jupiter in Leo form -
ing an opposition to Pluto in Aquarius in the summer of 2026, we could see this theme of financial 
polarization and social redistribution surface. 
When Pluto enters Aquarius, the deepest forces of metamorphosis infiltrate the sign of the water 
bearer, carrying not the chalice of the individual soul but the amphora of collective life. As Pluto 
transits Aquarius, the unconscious energies of transformation tunnel through the latticework of col -
lective thought, shaking the very fabric of civilization. We stand at the threshold of profound social 
and structural transformation—a reconfiguration of power, technology, and belief that may alter the 
very foundations of our world. 
Pluto first entered Aquarius on March 23, 2023, and after a couple of retrogrades back into Capri-
corn, it made its final ingress on November 19, 2024. It will remain in Aquarius until its final exit on 
January 19, 2044. This twenty-year arc echoes three previous transits upon which I based my study: 
April 1777 to December 1798; February 1532 to December 1553; and March 1286 to November 
1308. These are not fleeting influences but epochs that ushered in structural revolutions in belief, 
governance, science, and human self-conception. Each previous Pluto-in-Aquarius cycle coincided 
with tectonic global transformations whose consequences cascaded far beyond their own time. This 
one is no exception, as we have already seen with the advent of artificial intelligence and the trans -
formation it is creating. 
When Pluto last entered Aquarius in 1777, the American colonies were in open revolt against 
monarchical rule. Within a year, France would recognize the nascent United States, and the world 
would witness the first modern democracy born of Enlightenment ideals embodied in the Declaration 
43

--- PAGE 48 ---
of Independence. Not long after, in 1789, the French Revolution would erupt, dismantling centuries 
of feudalism, aristocracy, and divine right. It was as though the axis of power (Pluto) shifted from 
Capricorn (the king and aristocracy) to Aquarius (the people). Amid the chaos, the Rights of Man 
were proclaimed and the metric system invented—symbols both of egalitarian vision and rational 
order. The old regimes, long upheld by religion and inherited privilege, cracked under the pressure 
of new ideologies. The guillotine’s blade was both literal and symbolic: it severed the head from the 
body politic, and the old world from the new. Yet even these revolutions carried their shadows: the 
French “Reign of Terror,” the rise of Napoleon, the American Revolutionary War, and the ironies 
of liberty built on the backs of enslaved people. Still, the structures of power had been irrevocably 
altered. 
Numerous advances in science occurred in the years leading to Pluto’s 1777 ingress into 
Aquarius (an air sign). Chemist Carl Wilhelm Scheele made several breakthroughs in chemistry, 
discovering oxygen (1771), barium (1772), chlorine (1774), manganese (1774), and molybdenum 
(1778). In 1778, Scottish scientist Daniel Rutherford isolated nitrogen gas from the air. These 
discoveries paved the way for the invention of the hot-air balloon by the Montgolfier brothers. 
Advancements in science go hand in hand with the development of technology. How fitting, then, 
that the Industrial Revolution is said to have begun during Pluto’s transit through Aquarius in the 
1780s. Are we on the cusp of a technological—or perhaps cyber—revolution? With Uranus (arti -
ficial, technological, electrical) ingressing into Gemini (intelligence, mind, networks, vehicles), 
we are already witnessing groundbreaking progress in artificial intelligence, quantum computing, 
electric vehicles, and genetic technologies. 
A cycle earlier, from 1532 to 1553, the Reformation tore through Europe. Luther’s challenge to 
Rome, ignited in 1517, had by this time become a conflagration of national and spiritual self-defi -
nition. In England, Henry VIII severed the Church of England from papal authority, solidifying the 
Protestant Reformation and setting the stage for the Industrial Revolution during Pluto’s next transit 
through Aquarius. Across Europe, Protestants and Catholics waged both ideological and military war, 
and the question of conscience (Aquarius) versus authority (Capricorn) came to define the age. Dur-
ing the same span, Copernicus’s heliocentric model was published, quietly dismantling the geocentric 
cosmos and elevating human reason as a force capable of dethroning dogma. These were not merely 
religious or scientific shifts—they were existential realignments of humanity’s place in the universe, 
orchestrated through Pluto’s invisible hand moving behind Aquarius’s crystalline lattice of ideas. 
Reaching further back, the 1286–1308 transit marked the waning of the Crusades, the final fall of 
Acre in 1291, and the subsequent retreat of Christendom from the Holy Land. In Europe, the Mongol 
Empire fractured into khanates, and the Ottoman state was born faintly and quietly in Anatolia, yet 
destined to dominate the region for centuries. In Scotland, resistance to English rule culminated in 
the rise of Robert the Bruce, setting in motion a centuries-long national identity. These were stirrings 
of future empires, ideological partitions, and nationalist awakenings. Even in these less illuminated 
centuries, Pluto’s Aquarian pulse could be felt in the collective rearrangement of power and meaning. 
Taken together, these epochs teach that Pluto in Aquarius does not merely transform govern -
ments or spark innovation—it rewires the circuitry of the collective mind. It is a time when invis -
ible convictions become visible architectures. Systems once thought immutable (divine right, papal 
authority, hereditary class, and egocentricity) collapse beneath the weight of new logic. This logic 
may be scientific, democratic, or spiritual, but it is always systemic. Aquarius does not tinker; it reen-
gineers. It does not evolve; it revolts. 
44

--- PAGE 49 ---
As we now enter the 2023–2044 transit, we do so already midstream in a sea of metamorphosis. 
The world is reeling from a pandemic that altered human interaction at every level (social, economic, 
and spiritual). Artificial intelligence, once the domain of speculative fiction, now crafts art, writes 
essays, and challenges our sense of creativity and authorship. Climate change is no longer a future 
threat but a present reality, compelling a reimagination of energy, consumption, and planetary stew-
ardship. Political systems are fraying under the weight of hyperpolarization, and the question of 
governance itself—who decides, how, and why—is under renewed scrutiny. These are not random 
disruptions; they are the signature of Pluto moving through Aquarius—a time when the infrastruc -
tures of thought and the blueprints of society are subject to collapse and renewal. 
As Pluto shifts its axis of power from Capricorn into Aquarius, we may be standing at the thresh-
old of a profound change in the global monetary order. The age of the petrodollar—a distinctly Capri-
cornian symbol of control, structure, and authority—may be giving way to a new financial paradigm 
rooted in decentralization and digital innovation. This could manifest through the rise of cryptocur -
rencies or perhaps through a future reserve system anchored in blockchain technology, reflecting the 
Aquarian ideals of transparency, equality, and collective empowerment. 
In much the same way, the centers of worldly influence appear to be shifting from the traditional 
sphere of politicians and institutions, shaped by Capricorn’s discipline and hierarchy, toward the 
visionary realm of technology leaders and digital pioneers. The Kissingers of old are being replaced 
by the Zuckerbergs and Jensen Huangs of the new—figures who shape global dynamics not through 
diplomacy and statecraft but through data, platforms, and artificial intelligence. One need only look 
at President Trump’s inner circle to see this transition unfolding, as the engines of political power 
become increasingly intertwined with the architecture of technology and the ambitions of a new kind 
of elite. 
Aquarius, being fixed air, is the principle of ideational structure. It governs constitutions, tech -
nologies, collectives, and the unseen patterns that bind individual minds into societal order. When 
Pluto moves through this terrain, it brings the underworld’s depth to bear upon the sky’s abstraction. 
In practical terms, this may mean the exposure of corruption within institutions, the dissolution of 
dysfunctional systems, and the obsessive pursuit of new paradigms. Yet such changes are rarely 
smooth, as we have seen with the cuts implemented by the Department of Government Efficiency 
(DOGE). The last time this transit occurred, liberty and terror walked hand in hand; before that, reli-
gious freedom gave way to inquisitions and wars. Pluto brings to light that which must decay—not to 
destroy for destruction’s sake, but to compost the soil of civilization for future growth. 
In the years ahead, we may witness the reshaping of global alliances, the redefinition of rights in 
the digital and biological realms, and the rise of new forms of identity that transcend nation, gender, 
and tradition. Aquarius speaks of the group, but Pluto asks: at what cost? Surveillance technologies, 
biometric data, and algorithmic governance may promise efficiency yet threaten the very freedoms 
they aim to protect. The paradox of Aquarius is that its utopian impulse can, under Pluto’s pressure, 
veer into dystopia. What begins as collective liberation may end in technocratic control—unless tem-
pered by wisdom and ethical clarity. 
Yet history shows that these are also times of extraordinary human brilliance. When the old world 
breaks, the new world becomes possible. The heliocentric model was heresy before it was astronomy. 
Democracy was treason before it became a principle. In each case, the seeds were sown during 
Pluto’s passage through Aquarius. 
45

--- PAGE 50 ---
In summary, these are the key recurring patterns identified from studying prior transits of 
Pluto through Aquarius. They represent the overarching undertone of mundane activity over 
the coming two decades: 
• Revolution and rebellion: Political change in the structure of governance 
• Major power transition: The fall of the old empire and the rise of the new 
• Technological transformation: Intellectual progress through innovation 
• Social reform and collective ideals: Expansion of rights and establishment of new social 
contracts 
• Polarization and persecution: The “us vs. them” mentality taken to extremes 
• Paradigm shift: Re-evaluation of fundamental truths and organizing principles 
• Exploration: Transformation in our understanding of the world and our place within it 
46

--- PAGE 51 ---
NEPTUNE IN ARIES: THE DAWN OF NEW DREAMS 
by Pouyan Zolfagharnia, MMA Analyst 
When Neptune crosses the fiery threshold of Aries, the collective dream meets the first sign of the 
zodiac—the spark of beginnings, the will to incarnate, the courage to act. Neptune, planet of vision, 
dissolution, and transcendent imagination, moves with an almost unimaginable slowness, circling the 
Sun once every 165 years and spending approximately 14 years in each sign. It governs the tides of 
human consciousness, the rise and fall of ideals, the blurring of boundaries between what is seen and 
what is intuited. 
Aries, by contrast, is the archetype of emergence: cardinal fire, ruled by Mars—the pulse of ini -
tiative, the assertion of individuality. When the oceanic depth of Neptune enters the furnace of Aries, 
humanity is asked to dream not in abstraction but in motion, to translate longing into action, and to 
awaken through the heat of new beginnings. This meeting will define the years from March 30, 2025, 
when Neptune first entered Aries, to March 24, 2039, when it departs the sign for the final time. Nep-
tune will ignite the first degrees of the zodiac, closing the long Piscean era of surrender and faith and 
ushering in a cycle of spiritual confrontation and renewal. I have reviewed the prior three instances of 
Neptune in Aries—1533–1548, 1697–1712, and 1861–1875—each marked by revolution, invention, 
and a burning sense that the world was beginning again. 
In the spring of 1533, when Neptune last blazed into Aries at the dawn of the modern age, Europe 
was splitting along lines of belief and power. Henry VIII’s break with Rome, John Calvin’s new the-
ology, and the first stirrings of the Council of Trent transformed religion from a single edifice into a 
battlefield of conscience. The Reformation tore the veil of medieval unity and authority, and behind it 
rose the sovereign state and the free (Aries) mind (Neptune). At the same time, Copernicus prepared 
De revolutionibus, shifting the cosmos itself: the Sun, not the Earth, at the center—an idea as radical 
then as the notion of artificial intelligence or space colonization is now. The conquistadors crossed 
oceans; the Jesuits crossed continents. The human spirit, intoxicated by its own potential, burned to 
claim and to know. As Neptune left Pisces for Aries, faith (Pisces) was transmuted into struggle, and 
revelation into discovery (Aries). The world’s map was redrawn, its heavens reimagined, and human-
ity stood—dazzled—on the brink of its modern identity and place in the cosmos. A paradigm shift 
had occurred. 
A century and a half later, in 1697, Neptune again entered Aries beneath a sky of gunpowder and 
invention. Europe convulsed in the War of the Spanish Succession, while in the north Peter the Great’s 
armies shattered Sweden’s power and founded St. Petersburg on the Baltic marshes. These were wars 
not merely of territory but of principle: who would define the shape of empire, who would claim 
divine right, and who would harness the newborn engines of science. Newton’s Opticks appeared in 
1704, revealing that light consists of particles rather than waves—a paradox befitting Neptune’s mys-
tic symbolism. Locke’s empiricism and the first murmurs of Enlightenment reason spread through 
coffeehouses and pamphlets. Even the machines began to stir: Thomas Newcomen’s steam engine 
was built in 1712—a modest contraption pumping water from a mine, yet in it the Industrial Age took 
its first breath. Once again, Neptune’s mist met Aries’ flame, and out of the smoke rose a new vision 
of human power—the capacity to shape the material world through the imagination of the mind. 
47

--- PAGE 52 ---
Then came 1861, and with it a thunderous repetition of the same motif on a planetary scale. 
This transit is particularly important, as it also found Uranus in Gemini and Jupiter in Leo—three of 
the five outer planets in the same signs where we find them again in 2026. The American Civil War 
erupted as Neptune entered Aries’ early degrees, a baptism of blood that forced a nation to reconcile 
its ideals with its deeds. In Europe, Garibaldi’s Redshirts marched for Italian unity, and Prussian can-
nons forged the German Empire. Across continents, the principle of nationhood, of collective identity 
born from struggle, seized humanity with martial fervor. The serfs of Russia were emancipated, slav-
ery was abolished in America, and new ideologies of socialism, feminism, and scientific humanism 
challenged the old order. The telegraph stitched oceans together, the Suez Canal joined seas, and the 
United States completed its first transcontinental railroad in 1869, uniting the two coasts. Mendeleev 
dreamed (Neptune) of the periodic table; Pasteur revealed the germ (Aries) theory (Neptune); and the 
descendants of the first practical steam (Neptune) engine (Aries) reshaped the rhythm of daily life as 
the world reached the height of the Second Industrial Revolution. Every realm of existence quick -
ened. It was as if the planet itself inhaled, braced, and charged forward, believing it could master 
destiny. Yet behind the triumphs lay the same Neptunian shadow: illusions of progress, the seductions 
of nationalism, the dream that machinery could redeem humanity. Out of these contradictions rose 
the modern world we still inhabit. 
Now, once more, the tide returns. In 2025, Neptune entered Aries, and for the first time in living 
memory the collective imagination is being asked to start anew. We stand at the frontier of crises and 
possibilities that echo those earlier epochs, but on a scale their architects could not have conceived. 
The old Piscean age of faith, media saturation, and global diffusion is dissolving; the new age demands 
action, courage, and embodiment. The wars of religion have been replaced by battles of ideology and 
information, the Copernican revolution by the algorithmic one. Just as Copernicus displaced Earth from 
the center, artificial intelligence may soon displace humanity from the center of cognition. The question 
is not whether this will happen, but how consciously we will shape its unfolding. 
Every prior Neptune-in-Aries generation has faced the same paradox: the promise of freedom 
and the peril of zeal. When the ocean (Neptune) enters the forge (Aries), the steam obscures as much 
as it reveals. The sixteenth century’s wars of faith cloaked ambition in piety; the eighteenth century’s 
Enlightenment hid conquest within reason; and the nineteenth century’s nationalism carried liberation 
and domination in the same breath. Our own age is poised between salvation and self-annihilation 
in equally Neptunian fashion. Climate change, the exhaustion of resources, and the digital coloniza -
tion of consciousness expose how thin the boundary has become between dream and delusion. Aries, 
impatient and absolute, demands decision. Neptune blurs every line. Together they create the atmo -
sphere of a holy war of the future—a moral urgency to act on visions that may or may not be true. 
Yet from this tension arises the possibility of renaissance. The youth of the world—those born 
into climate anxiety and algorithmic life—may become new spiritual warriors, their rebellion not of 
territory but of meaning. As in 1533, when the word of God shifted from Latin pulpits to vernacu -
lar tongues, knowledge today is democratizing through digital networks. V oices long silenced find 
global amplification. Ideals of equality, ecological stewardship, and collective imagination surge 
across borders—sometimes chaotic, sometimes profound. Neptune in Aries tends to inflame the col -
lective heart; revolutions of conscience, such as the response to the Palestinian genocide, are its 
signature. We may see movements that combine technology with mysticism, activism with artistry— 
arising from a generation seeking not escape but embodiment, replacing despair with the courage to 
attempt the impossible. 
48

--- PAGE 53 ---
Technologically, the parallels are uncanny. Just as the 1700s cycle birthed the steam engine and 
the 1860s brought the telegraph and industrial expansion, this transit unfolds amid revolutions of 
comparable magnitude. Artificial intelligence, genetic engineering, and renewable energy are today’s 
steam engines—tools that can either liberate or enslave, depending on the ideals guiding them. Aries 
insists on mastery; Neptune reminds us that mastery without meaning is illusion. Humanity’s chal -
lenge in these years is to wield innovation with conscience, to transform invention into stewardship. 
The coming decades will test whether our species has matured enough to fuse technological fire with 
spiritual humility. 
Politically, Neptune in Aries coincides with the fragmentation of empires and the birth of new 
alignments. The sixteenth century saw monarchs wrest power from the papacy; the early eighteenth 
redefined the balance of Europe; the nineteenth forged nation-states from feudal ashes. In our time, 
globalization itself is fraying. Supply chains recoil inward, currencies digitize, and regions assert 
sovereignty over distant systems. Aries thrives on independence; Neptune erodes boundaries. Their 
meeting may produce both secession and synthesis—nations dissolving into networks, while net -
works harden into nations. The dream of unity may survive only through a higher form of diversity: 
a federation of consciousness rather than of commerce. Out of turbulence could emerge a new plan -
etary identity, forged not by empire but by shared vulnerability to climate, data, and destiny. 
Economically, this cycle reveals a recurring theme: political turbulence exerting a direct impact 
on markets and financial structures, especially at the onset of the ingress. Historical patterns show that 
the first two to three years after Neptune enters Aries consistently mark a period of financial upheaval, 
speculative innovation, inflation, and structural revaluation. In each of the past three ingresses, old 
monetary or political systems broke down, giving rise to new instruments of credit, trade, and state 
power. The years 1533 to 1536 saw a massive reallocation of capital from the Church to private 
hands, resulting in a property boom followed by inflation and currency debasement in England. The 
years 1697 to 1700 brought financial innovation and the rise of public debt markets—initially under 
the newly founded Bank of England, but soon expanding into more speculative ventures such as the 
South Sea and Mississippi Companies, which ultimately led to a financial crash. The period from 
1861 to 1864 introduced fiat currency (the first paper “greenbacks”) and speculative industrial expan-
sion amid global conflict. Gold and silver prices soared, then collapsed as confidence fluctuated. 
Each cycle began with dislocation and exuberance, as faith or ideology shifted and old systems or 
currencies broke down, forcing the creation of new instruments of credit and trade. It is worth noting 
that the current Bretton Woods system—with the U.S. dollar as the world’s reserve currency—is cur -
rently in tatters. On one side lies an unsustainable degree of national debt, driven by decades of budget 
deficits in the global North; on the other, the confiscation of approximately $640 billion in Russian 
national reserves frozen in 2022 in response to the invasion of Ukraine. Combined, these forces have 
significantly eroded trust in the system, spurring the global South, led by the BRICS nations, toward 
the Chinese yuan as they attempt to anchor it to gold through the so-called “gold corridor”—a global 
network of vaults facilitating the conversion of U.S. Treasuries into gold. It is also worth noting that 
the Federal Reserve is really going to struggle to retain control over the economy if it faces a market 
crash and high inflation simultaneously. Both scenarios are on the table over the next three years. 
The prior cycles were also accompanied by speculative surges, as optimism outran fundamen -
tals and capital chased new “frontiers” (religious reform, colonial expansion, industrial technol -
ogy, or postwar rebuilding). We are currently seeing similar speculation and a potential bubble 
49

--- PAGE 54 ---
forming around technology stocks and AI (see the boom–bust cycle discussed in the Uranus-in-
Gemini section). 
History also warns that every birth of vision carries its delirium. The Reformation begot inquisi-
tions; the Enlightenment, colonialism; nationalism, world wars. The next danger may be ideologi -
cal absolutism disguised as moral clarity. Digital tribes already wage crusades across screens; truth 
becomes fluid, belief weaponized. Neptune clouds, Aries polarizes—and together they form a dan -
gerous combination. The task for the wise is to see through both illusions: to act without fanaticism, 
to dream without escape. 
As the transit deepens through the 2030s, we may see breakthroughs in fusion energy, space 
exploration, and consciousness studies. Humanity may extend its reach beyond Earth even as it con-
fronts the limits of its own habitat. The symbolism is clear: the frontier outside mirrors the frontier 
within. The question is not only how far out we can go, but also how far in. Each prior Neptune-in-
Aries era believed it was entering a new world—one that would mark a paradigm shift. 
In summary, these are the key recurring patterns I have identified from studying the last three 
transits of Neptune through Aries. Beneath the overarching undertone set by Pluto, Neptune will cast 
the light through which mundane activity will manifest over the next thirteen years: 
•	 War and the birth of new orders: Each transit coincided with major conflicts that 
shattered old structures and ushered in new political orders. 
•	 Ideological and spiritual revolution: Every period witnessed a surge of new ideas, 
ideologies, and mass movements that challenged prevailing orthodoxies. 
•	 Technological and scientific breakthroughs: Each transit aligned with game-changing 
innovations that expanded humanity’s capabilities and understanding. 
•	 Social upheaval and reform: Each period brought intense social stress and 
transformation, as entrenched orders were challenged and new rights or reforms 
emerged. 
•	 Financial upheaval, speculative innovation, inflation, and structural revaluation: 
Each cycle began with dislocation and exuberance, as faith or ideology shifted into 
material enterprise, followed by correction and consolidation that defined the next 
economic era. 
50

--- PAGE 55 ---
URANUS IN GEMINI: THE COMMUNICATIONS RENAISSANCE 
by Pouyan Zolfagharnia, MMA Analyst 
When Uranus steps into the sign of Gemini, it is a crossing from the slow solidity of Taurus into 
the realm of mutable air—a passage from the weight of matter to the quicksilver of mind. Uranus 
moves in an 84-year circuit (spending roughly seven years in each sign), and each time it returns to 
Gemini, it electrifies the human nervous system: the world begins to think, speak, and connect in 
ways that were previously unimagined. From its first hesitant ingress in July 2025, through a brief 
retreat into Taurus, to its full re-entry in April 2026, Uranus will inhabit Gemini until May 2033. 
These dates mark not merely a planetary sojourn but the threshold of a global reconfiguration of 
information, alliances, and our means of communication. To grasp its meaning, we must listen back-
ward through history to the echoes of earlier transits, for Uranus in Gemini has always spoken in the 
language of sudden correspondence. 
In astrology, Uranus is the planet of disruption, innovation, revolution, and awakening. It carries 
the spark of the divine mind that refuses containment, the Promethean impulse to liberate. It is the 
only planet that rotates almost perpendicular to the plane of the ecliptic, with an axial tilt of 98°. It is 
literally the rebel, standing up and throwing its fist (ring) into the air in objection to the status quo. It 
is the disruptor, and it will disrupt everything linked or related to the sign through which it transits. 
Gemini, ruled by Mercury, is the mutable air sign of thought and exchange: twin-formed, curious, 
restless, ever in dialogue. Therefore, Gemini represents communication, trade, exchange, transport, 
information flow, education, and public opinion. In mundane astrology, it is the nervous system of 
a nation and governs the media, telecommunications, networks, roads, railways, diplomacy, and the 
intellectual exchanges that bind societies together. 
When the electric principle of Uranus moves through this sign, intellect and invention become 
instruments of revolution. Ideas cross borders faster than armies, and the structure of communication 
itself becomes the field of transformation. The marriage of Uranus and Gemini produces the same 
signature each time: an acceleration of intellect, a division of narratives, and the birth of technologies 
that reshape perception. Uranus is the celestial force that breaks patterns and brings abrupt change, 
chaos, and instability into the lives of Gemini natives or nations. On the positive side, it can also bring 
about creative and intellectual breakthroughs. Uranus also rules over the boom–bust cycle, so we may 
anticipate a sudden rally as a bubble forms and subsequently bursts in the sector of the market ruled 
by Gemini (including technology, AI, communication, cars, satellites, and network companies). 
The historical record of Uranus in Gemini is startlingly consistent. The last transit unfolded 
between 1941 and 1949, years in which the world both destroyed and remade itself. In 1942, as 
Uranus advanced through the early degrees of Gemini, the Second World War reached its global cre-
scendo. Air warfare, radar, and coded communication—the very tools of Gemini’s domain—decided 
the fate of nations. In 1945, as Uranus reached mid-Gemini, the atom was split, and the voice of 
destruction became instantaneous. Yet at that same moment, humanity invented the frameworks that 
would govern peace: the United Nations was founded, the Bretton Woods system was drafted, and 
the Nuremberg principles were articulated. The duality of Gemini could not be clearer: division and 
reconciliation, annihilation and the promise of dialogue. The war’s aftermath birthed the Iron Curtain 
and NATO, dividing the planet into two ideological twins. Even the earliest computers—ENIAC in 
51

--- PAGE 56 ---
1946 and the transistor in 1947—arose under this transit, giving literal form to Mercury’s dream of 
instantaneous logic. Uranus in Gemini wrote the blueprint of the information age. 
A century earlier, from 1858 to 1866, the same planet traced this sign across a world humming 
with telegraph wires. The first transatlantic cable was completed in 1858 and announced the end of 
isolation. News could now cross the oceans faster than wind. The American Civil War, fought from 
1861 to 1865, unfolded entirely within this Uranian air—a conflict over union and division, slavery 
and freedom, Gemini’s eternal polarity made manifest in politics. During those years, Abraham Lin-
coln signed the Emancipation Proclamation (1863), and Alexander Graham Bell, still a boy, began 
the experiments that would culminate in the telephone. Meanwhile, in Europe, Otto von Bismarck’s 
Prussia engineered the wars that would unify Germany, and in 1863 Henri Dunant founded the Red 
Cross, leading to the Geneva Convention—a humanitarian (Uranus) code (Gemini) of communica -
tion amid carnage. Each event echoed the same archetype: conflict that compels new networks of 
meaning, and innovation that arises from fracture. 
Step further back to 1774–1782, and Uranus in Gemini oversaw the American Revolution. The 
Declaration (Gemini) of Independence (Uranus) was signed in 1776; Thomas Paine’s Common Sense 
circulated in every tavern; pamphleteering replaced the pulpit as the instrument of ideology. It was 
not only a war of muskets but of words. Across the Atlantic, the early Industrial Revolution gathered 
momentum—James Watt’s improved steam engine was patented in 1781, transforming movement 
and communication alike. In philosophy, Immanuel Kant published The Critique of Pure Reason in 
1781, redefining how humanity conceived knowledge itself. The themes converge again: rebellion 
of thought, mechanical invention, and the moral experiment of a new social order. Gemini’s dual -
ity manifested as liberty and empire, the twin offspring of Enlightenment. A noteworthy discovery 
during this period was that of the planet Uranus itself, by the astronomer William Herschel in 1781. 
The earlier transit, from roughly 1690 to 1698, coincided with England’s financial and informa-
tional revolution. The Bank of England was founded in 1694; the first daily newspapers appeared; 
coffee houses became the neural nodes of a new public sphere. Isaac Newton, recently appointed 
Master of the Mint, stabilized the currency system even as his Opticks redefined light and perception. 
Ideas traveled through pamphlets and postal systems with unprecedented velocity. It was during these 
years that the modern concepts of “news” and financial speculation took shape—both Gemini cre -
ations, transforming knowledge and rumor into tradable commodities. The spirit of Uranus electrified 
Mercury’s domain of commerce and intellect, fusing them into a single current. 
The earliest Uranus-in-Gemini passage examined in this study was from 1606 to 1614. During 
this period, Galileo turned his telescope toward Jupiter’s moons. In 1609, he constructed the first 
refracting telescope; in 1610, he published the Sidereus Nuncius, ironically during a Jupiter–Uranus 
conjunction in Gemini. That same year, Johannes Kepler described the laws of planetary motion, 
mapping the harmony of the spheres with mathematical precision. In 1611, the King James Bible 
appeared in England, reshaping language itself. Across continents, Jesuit scholars carried European 
astronomy to China and brought back maps and translations that redrew the world. The very sky 
changed shape beneath Uranus in Gemini, as did the mind that contemplated it. 
These five epochs form a rhythm that can be read like a long-wave signal pulsing through history. 
Each time Uranus entered Gemini, humanity underwent a communications revolution that redefined 
what connection meant. Each time, a new technology of thought was born: telescope, newspaper, 
telegraph, computer, network—and now we have AI and quantum computing. Each time, the world 
52

--- PAGE 57 ---
divided into opposing yet interdependent halves. And each time, out of war or upheaval, a moral reor-
ganization followed—a redefinition of freedom, of human rights, and of the laws by which dialogue 
is maintained. Uranus in Gemini does not merely accelerate change; it teaches civilization how to 
speak to itself again—through a declaration or charter, a humanitarian (Uranus) contract (Gemini) 
setting the boundaries for civil society and the promise of “never again.” Yet reviewing the cycles 
from these perspectives raises the question of whether turmoil is a prerequisite for evolution. 
As the 2025 ingress takes effect, the world is once again polarized and overconnected. Informa-
tion moves faster than comprehension; communication technologies are rewriting the conditions of 
truth. Artificial intelligence, quantum computing, and low-orbit satellite constellations mirror the 
telegraph and radio of earlier ages—tools that shrink space and test the integrity of meaning. Just 
as the telegraph once promised unity but delivered both commerce and espionage, today’s networks 
offer enlightenment and vulnerability to distortion in equal measure. The archetype is consistent: 
Gemini multiplies messages and analysis; Uranus disrupts their order. The result is revelation fol -
lowed by reformation. 
If the mid-twentieth century brought physical reconstruction, the twenty-first will bring recon -
struction of mind. The transit of Uranus through Gemini from 2025 to 2033 may not only redraw 
national borders as it once did but also redraw the architecture of cognition and society. We are likely 
to witness the formal emergence of parallel digital worlds—dual standards of data, AI, and gover -
nance that mirror Gemini’s twin nature. As in 1947–48, when the Iron Curtain descended and nations 
were partitioned in two (Palestine, India, Germany, and Korea), ideological networks may solidify 
into two rival yet intertwined systems. But there is also the promise of synthesis: Uranus, though dis-
ruptive, seeks revolution, for the sake of progress, not destruction. Out of polarity may come interop-
erability—a new form of communication between opposites, where rivalry compels innovation. 
The space race has been replaced by the AI race. Just as Charles Darwin formulated his theory 
of evolution under this sky (1859), could the next leap in human evolution also take place as Uranus 
once again returns to Gemini? The sequence of mechanization has progressed from bicycles, cars, 
and trains doing the work of the human feet, to industrial machines doing the work of our hands, and 
now to AI performing the work of the mind. Can we skip a beat in this acceleration and reach quan -
tum computing doing the work of the spirit, expanding our perception of the fourth dimension? The 
next seven years will bring a whirlwind (Gemini) of change (Uranus). 
History also warns that periods of Uranus in Gemini coincide with moral turning points. The 
abolition of slavery in the 1860s, the human rights declarations of the 1940s, and the philosophical 
humanism of the Enlightenment all arose under this sky. The coming decade may confront the ethical 
boundaries of intelligence itself—what it means to be conscious, accountable, or truthful in an age 
when speech is mechanized. Laws of information and identity will emerge as defining instruments of 
civilization, much as the Geneva Convention once was. We may see the codification of digital per -
sonhood or the first serious treaties on artificial cognition—expressions of the same moral imperative 
to protect communication as the foundation of humanity. 
Economically, Uranus’s departure from Taurus and entry into Gemini signals a shift from disrup-
tions in the banking system and money to disruptions in technology, transportation, and information 
networks, exchanges, and global trade. In 1609, Amsterdam opened the first stock exchange. A free 
(Uranus) market (Gemini) was born, allowing market participants to set and speculate on the price of 
assets. During the next transit, the Bank of England was formed in 1694, creating value out of thin air 
53

--- PAGE 58 ---
(Gemini) through the use of contracts that established the modern national debt system. During the 
next transit (1774–82), the American colonies financed revolution through paper currency and war 
bonds. Adam Smith published The Wealth of Nations in 1776, laying the theoretical groundwork for 
free (Uranus) trade (Gemini) and specialization—an idea that would go on to reshape economics and 
drive globalization. During the next transit (1858–66), the transatlantic telegraph allowed near-instant 
price arbitration between London and New York, creating the first truly synchronized global market. 
The same period birthed modern investment banking, led by the Rothschilds, Barings, and J.P. Mor-
gan’s precursors. During this transit, the modern oil industry was also born in Pennsylvania, which 
would go on to transform (Uranus) the markets and transportation (Gemini). Finally, during the last 
transit (1941–1949), war financing and postwar reconstruction rewrote the financial order under the 
Bretton Woods Agreement, which created the World Bank, IMF, and the dollar’s ascendancy. 
So, we can see a clear pattern of financial innovation, as each cycle births a new instrument or 
infrastructure of exchange, aided by advances in technology that enhance the communication of 
information. Yet the improved flow of information and financial systems does not eliminate crashes 
or speculative bubbles, which were once driven by production changes alone. The new systems born 
under the air sign of Gemini incorporate trust and gossip into valuations. Nearly every transit begins 
with speculative excess or debt stress (1609 Tulip Mania, the Panic of 1857, 1940s wartime infla -
tion and debt) that results in a market crash. Each prior transit has started with disruptions to trade 
routes (usually through war) and ended with treaties and a new world order of exchange promoting 
free trade and radically expanded trade corridors. Each cycle has also seen a transition from tangible 
to abstract values, with each era dematerializing wealth one step further: from spices to shares, from 
gold to credit, from labor to data. 
Given the historical rhythm, the current transit suggests another financial reset driven by war— 
whether national or trade-based. This shift is likely to bring about digital currencies, blockchain-
based settlements, and AI-mediated trade clearing, echoing the telegraph’s transformative impact in 
the nineteenth century. Market volatility can be expected around the emerging “protocol wars” of 
value, including standards for digital money, cross-border compliance, and identity verification. As 
in 1694 and 1944, it is new institutions—this time technology giants, rather than empires—that are 
poised to rise to power. Periodic shocks are almost certain, as Uranian surges tend to inflate innova-
tion before stabilizing it through market corrections. As you move through the coming chapters, you 
will see that our cyclical studies point to the same event: the 18-year trough in stock markets and the 
4-year trough in cryptocurrencies, both due in the early stages of this transit, continuing the uncanny 
rhythm of history. 
Since its formation, the United States has been drawn into major conflicts during every transit 
of Uranus through Gemini, a pattern deeply embedded in the nation’s history. These include the 
American Revolutionary War in 1775, the Civil War in 1861, and the country’s entry into World 
War II in 1941 following the attack on Pearl Harbor. This consistent rhythm suggests a strong cor -
relation between Uranus in Gemini and American involvement in war, raising the likelihood of a 
similar outcome during the upcoming transit from 2025 to 2033. Saturn’s cycle through Gemini 
also shows a marked association with both financial recessions and periods of conflict in the United 
States. The conjunction of Saturn and Uranus in Gemini, expected in 2032, implies that if the nation 
becomes engaged in warfare, the decisive phase is most likely to occur toward the end of this transit. 
If involvement were to begin earlier, the same configuration indicates that the engagement could 
continue until approximately 2032. 
54

--- PAGE 59 ---
As Uranus marches through Gemini, these are the nations to keep a close eye on: Armenia, 
Wales, Belgium, Indonesia, Egypt, the United States, Yemen, Jordan, Argentina, Azerbaijan, South 
Africa, Zimbabwe, Qatar, Malaysia, and Papua New Guinea. Uranus will disrupt the status quo as it 
transits through the natal sign of nations and individuals alike—as it did in Britain (Aries) with the 
2016 Brexit referendum, or in Syria (Aries) with the 2011 uprising that marked the start of the civil 
war, when Uranus transited Aries (2010–2018). We saw the same pattern of turmoil and upheaval 
encompass Israel (Taurus) during Uranus’s transit through Taurus. We also witnessed the 2018 abor-
tion referendum in Ireland (Taurus) and the 2021 deadly Limassol wildfires in Cyprus (Taurus). 
Therefore, a wave of popular revolt, demonstrations, referendums, natural disasters, or conflict is 
likely to arise in several of the Gemini countries. 
For individuals born under the influence of Gemini, this transit can be both liberating and desta-
bilizing, as Uranus brings immense disruptions along with moments of genius. Among those who 
carry this signature is the president of the United States, Donald Trump, a Gemini native who also 
has natal Uranus in Gemini, reflecting an inherently rebellious and unconventional temperament. His 
style exemplifies the disruptive brilliance and contrarian energy often associated with this placement. 
Another significant figure is President Xi Jinping of China, also a Gemini native, whose leadership 
embodies a different manifestation of this archetype: strategic adaptability and mastery of narrative 
control. It is also noteworthy that President V olodymyr Zelensky has his Ascendant in Gemini, while 
President Vladimir Putin’s natal Moon occupies the same sign. The ongoing transit of Uranus through 
Gemini is therefore likely to exert a pronounced influence on these leaders, shaping not only their 
personal trajectories but also the collective direction of the nations they represent. 
The historical record shows recurring clusters of famine, climatic instability, and geophysical 
disruption during prior transits of Uranus in the air sign of Gemini. The 1606–1614 transit coincided 
with one of the harshest phases of the “Little Ice Age” in Europe. The “Great Frost” devastated crops, 
leading to famine. At the same time, the Jamestown colony in Virginia endured the “Starving Time,” 
when almost the entire population perished. In 1609, the Great Bristol Channel Flood remains the 
greatest natural disaster recorded in Wales (Gemini). Between 1693 and 1698, crop failures struck 
Scotland, Scandinavia, France, and large parts of Central Europe. The so-called “Seven Ill Years” in 
Scotland killed perhaps 15% of the population, and Finland lost a third of its people. In 1775–76, 
poor harvests struck Europe and India, while in 1780 a major hurricane (extreme wind—Uranus in 
Gemini) devastated the Caribbean, killing more than 20,000 people. During 1858–66, the “Global 
Famine of the 1860s,” caused by a series of droughts, killed millions throughout India, China, South-
east Asia, northern Africa, and parts of Latin America. 
Between 1941 and 1949, famine struck again, yet this time it was not caused by weather pat -
terns but by mismanagement. The Bengal Famine of 1943 claimed an estimated three to four million 
lives in India, while the Iranian Famine of 1942–1943 is believed to have caused up to five million 
deaths—nearly a third of Iran’s population at the time. Iran was officially a neutral state at the outset 
of World War II. Both crises unfolded under British or Allied wartime administration, yet neither 
has been formally acknowledged or addressed by the British government. Together, they account 
for roughly nine million lives lost, far exceeding Britain’s own wartime death toll of about 450,000. 
These events remain politically and historically sensitive. For many years, both famines were subject 
to censorship and limited public discussion. What is important to note is that neither famine was 
caused by a lack of food but rather by distribution (Gemini) failures (Uranus), as both grain and 
transportation were diverted and prioritized to support Britain’s war efforts. Astrologically, they can 
55

--- PAGE 60 ---
be seen as reflecting a darker aspect of Uranus in Gemini: a period associated with disruptions in 
communication, logistics, and the flow of vital resources. 
Therefore, the upcoming cycle (2025–2033) warrants attention to climate-linked supply chains 
and information systems that could result in famine. Periods of extreme weather, drought, flooding, 
or cold snaps could be magnified by simultaneous shocks in data infrastructure, transport, or markets. 
This aligns well with MMA Agricultural Analyst Wyatt Fellows’ forecast of droughts within the orb 
of Saturn–Neptune hard aspects, which will be in force during 2026. In the air sign of Gemini, one 
would imagine that the disruption will be caused by weather-driven factors, yet we cannot rule out 
disruptions to satellite networks, maritime corridors, or trade wars. 
Yet beneath all these material and political manifestations lies a subtler transformation: a muta -
tion in human consciousness. When Uranus passes through Gemini, perception itself accelerates. 
The collective mind becomes nervous, curious, polyphonic. During the 1770s, it wrote revolution -
ary pamphlets; during the 1860s, it read telegrams; during the 1940s, it tuned into radio broadcasts 
and early computers. Now it will converse with algorithms—reflections of its own thought rendered 
autonomous. This transit will not simply connect humanity outwardly but confront it with its own 
mirrored intelligence. Gemini, after all, is the sign of twins—of dialogue and duplication. We will 
speak to our machines and discover that they answer in kind. The question is whether we will recog-
nize ourselves in the echo. 
Still, the pattern offers hope. Every Uranus-in-Gemini epoch has, after its storms, produced struc-
tures of cooperation and understanding. Out of the chaos of 1610 came scientific method; out of 1776 
came democratic ideals; out of 1945 came global governance. The cycle reveals that disorder is the 
price of invention, and communication is the remedy for division. As we navigate the next seven 
years, the task is not to fear the multiplicity of voices but to find coherence among them. 
By the time Uranus departs Gemini in May 2033, humanity will inhabit a transformed landscape 
of mind. The technologies born under this sky will define the rest of the century, just as the telegraph 
defined the nineteenth and the computer the twentieth. The cycles of Uranus remind us that enlight -
enment and upheaval are twins. Each epoch of this planet’s passage through Gemini has carried both 
catastrophe and creation, each inseparable from the other. The telescope shattered the heavens to 
reveal their order; the atom bomb shattered the world to reveal its conscience. 
If we listen carefully to the rhythm of history, we hear the same message repeated every 84 
years: the world must learn to speak anew. The next great language is already forming in the invisible 
ether—between human and machine, between one culture and another, between thought and code. 
Uranus in Gemini opens that channel, and through it we will either rediscover our unity or amplify 
our division. The choice, as ever, lies not in the stars but in the minds that read them. 
In summary, the following key recurring patterns emerge from this study of the last five transits of 
Uranus through Gemini. Beneath the overarching undertone set by Pluto and Neptune, these themes 
represent the lower octaves through which mundane activity will manifest over the next seven years: 
• Major wars shifting into a new order: Conflicts that often redraw the world’s political map 
and create partitions or twin states. During prior cycles, the United States has always been 
involved in a military conflict. 
56

--- PAGE 61 ---
• Ideological polarization and alliances: Hand in hand with the war theme, these periods see 
the solidification of alliances or blocs. The world tends to bifurcate into opposing strategic 
camps. 
• Technological and intellectual breakthroughs: Information, communication, and techno-
logical revolutions. We see a “shrinking world” effect as society’s connectivity dramatically 
increases. 
• Scientific and intellectual paradigm shifts: Landmark intellectual leaps that change how 
humanity understands nature and society. 
• Social progress in human rights: The formation of frameworks and alliances grounded in 
equality, ethical responsibility, and fair governance. 
• Natural disasters and famine: Periods of extreme weather and environmental stress. 
57

--- PAGE 62 ---
SATURN IN ARIES: BUILDING THROUGH FIRE 
by Pouyan Zolfagharnia, MMA Analyst 
When Saturn entered Aries on 24 May 2025, humanity stood once again at a threshold between 
worlds. The slowest of the visible planets, Saturn governs the architecture of reality—the laws, insti -
tutions, economies, and moral codes that define civilization. Saturn’s orbit around the Sun is about 
30 years, spending roughly 2.5 years in each zodiac sign. Saturn is the outermost of the interpersonal 
planets and governs how we interact with society. Therefore, it rules over the political and economic 
structures, discipline, restriction, constraint, order, systems, traditional values, and accountability. 
By contrast, Aries signifies beginnings, assertion, warfare, leadership, and the birth of new orders. 
As the first sign of the zodiac and the cardinal fire archetype, it represents the principle of initiation, 
the surge of will that propels history into motion. Aries governs nations and movements that act rather 
than deliberate, emphasizing independence, courage, and self-determination. It rules the military, 
pioneering industries, and all forms of enterprise that demand direct action. In the collective psyche, 
Aries awakens the impulse to define identity and take decisive steps forward in search of freedom, 
free trade, free press, liberalism, and independence. Economically, it correlates with entrepreneur -
ial risk-taking, rapid innovation, and volatile but creative market phases—periods when the world 
prefers to act first and calculate later, forcing both progress and upheaval in equal measure. Nations 
traditionally associated with Aries include Imperial Iran (prior to the 1978 Islamic Revolution), Syria, 
Palestine, England, Germany, and Denmark. 
When Saturn enters Aries, the planet of order and restraint moves into the sign of impulse and 
initiation. The two energies are contradictory and at odds; therefore, ancient astrologers classified 
Aries as the sign of Saturn’s fall, where its stabilizing power is weakened and turns into a destabiliz-
ing force. In this sign, discipline gives way to urgency, and established systems struggle to contain 
the surge of new will. Institutions that rely on continuity or caution often lose coherence as authority 
fragments and individual actors seize initiative. The result is a world in transition: structures dissolve 
faster than they can be rebuilt, leaders act without consensus, and markets or governments may swing 
between bold innovation and reckless instability. 
When the planet of structure traverses the sign of impulse, history tends to convulse. Rules are 
rewritten in the very act of their breaking. Old empires stiffen and fall, while new systems, forged in 
haste or courage, arise to take their place. Saturn will remain in Aries until 12 April 2028, yet it is the 
initial ingress over 0° Aries, the world axis, that forms an integral part of the Aries V ortex. We got 
a prelude to this when both Saturn and Neptune ingressed into Aries and came within minutes of an 
exact conjunction in the summer of 2025. 
To understand the gravity of the coming years, one must look back through the lens of economic 
and social history. In my study, I have reviewed the past ten transits of Saturn through Aries, stretch-
ing back to 1731. Saturn in Aries has long coincided with periods when the engines of production and 
trade seize, reset, or leap forward through invention. This transit also tends to mark—or immediately 
follow—major market contractions, credit crises, or the end of speculative booms, often accompa -
nied by a revaluation of precious metals and a shift in monetary systems. Saturn’s fall in Aries, where 
order yields to volatility, translates economically into a loss of confidence in established markets and 
58

--- PAGE 63 ---
a pivot toward tangible assets like gold and silver. These are periods when liquidity tightens, risk 
appetite collapses, and structural reforms in finance or trade are forced into being. Yet paradoxically, 
they also set the stage for new cycles of growth once Saturn leaves Aries and stability (Saturn) gradu-
ally returns in Taurus. 
In 1731–34, Britain and Austria (the two leading empires of Europe) realigned their alliances 
under the Treaty of Vienna, inaugurating a new balance of mercantile power. At the same time, the 
last great wars of European succession disrupted the old trading monopolies. London’s coffee houses, 
home to insurers and early financiers, buzzed with speculation as the Enlightenment’s first market 
revolutions took shape. The founding of Georgia as a debtors’ colony embodied the Aries motif of 
risk and renewal—a social experiment in economic rehabilitation. Even V oltaire’s Letters on the 
English Nation (1734) can be read as a manifesto for the moral economy of capitalism: that work and 
rational order might replace the inertia of inherited privilege. In the markets, this brought about a new 
era of prudence, an economic “reset” phase in which the financial system was institutionalized after 
the chaos and speculation of the South Sea and Mississippi bubbles (1720). 
Three decades later, in 1761–63, Saturn returned to Aries under the roar of cannon fire. The 
Seven Years’ War, called the first global war, concluded with the Treaty of Paris in early 1763, 
redrawing the economic map of the world. Britain emerged as the hegemon of trade and empire; 
France was humbled; India and North America were opened to new exploitation. Behind the diplo -
macy lay a deeper shift: the birth of the industrial economy. Within two years of Saturn’s exit, 
James Watt perfected the steam engine. The war’s fiscal burdens forced Britain to tax its colonies, 
sparking the first modern wave of taxation-induced crisis, which went on to ignite the American 
Revolution. Saturn in Aries thus left its imprint as a financial reckoning—victory purchased with 
debt, a new era bought at the price of an old one’s stability. During the war, naval blockades dis -
rupted the Spanish silver trade from Mexico and Peru to Europe. This resulted in a surge in the 
price of silver, which quickly crashed once the embargo was lifted and the markets were swamped 
with a backlog of shipments. 
When Saturn returned to Aries in 1790–93, the old order collapsed entirely. The French Revolu-
tion hurled Europe into both ideological and economic crisis. Assignats, revolutionary paper money, 
flooded the markets, their value dissolving amid hyperinflation (Saturn–Neptune opposition) and 
destroying the old empire’s monetary system. Property was nationalized, guilds abolished, and the 
medieval system of privilege dismantled in a frenzy of liberation and confiscation. Across the Atlan-
tic, the United States ratified its Bill of Rights and stabilized its new financial institutions under 
Hamilton’s reforms, demonstrating Saturn’s other face: structure after upheaval. At the same time, 
the Polish Constitution of 1791 attempted to modernize a faltering state, only to be partitioned away 
within two years—a reminder that not every rebirth endures. The Haitian uprising of 1791 echoed 
this theme economically as well as politically: plantation capitalism itself was set aflame. This was 
the first successful slave rebellion, which ultimately led to the abolition of slavery and acted as the 
catalyst for the broader Haitian Revolution and the first independent Black republic. 
In the markets, Alexander Hamilton’s new federal debt system launched Wall Street’s first specu-
lative boom, followed by the Panic of 1792, a violent credit contraction. At the same time, gold and 
silver coinage became scarce, as France melted church treasures while Britain began to hoard gold 
ahead of the Napoleonic wars. This was, in effect, a global liquidity crisis, as paper money was dis -
credited and bullion prices rose, reaching a crest in 1810–15 during the Napoleonic War. 
59

--- PAGE 64 ---
The next cycle, 1819–22, carried the same double current of revolution and restraint. The post-
Napoleonic world convulsed in the Revolutions of 1820, as Spain, Portugal, and the Italian states 
demanded constitutional limits (Saturn) on royal power (Aries). Their aspirations were crushed by 
Austrian and French intervention, but the idea of liberal economics, free trade, free press, and free 
enterprise had been released. Across the Atlantic, those ideals bore fruit: Mexico and Brazil declared 
independence, and Simón Bolívar’s armies forged the republics of South America. These were not 
merely political acts but seismic economic transformations. The silver routes of the old empire 
shifted; tariffs and monopolies fell. Yet even freedom carried Saturn’s price. The British industrial 
engine, now dominant, imposed its own invisible empire through finance and manufacturing, binding 
the new nations in webs of debt. The United States experienced the Panic of 1819, its first nationwide 
depression, as commodity prices and land values collapsed, banks failed, and unemployment soared. 
Britain formally restored the gold standard (1819), enforcing deflationary discipline as gold’s con -
vertibility became the bedrock of modern finance. It is worth noting that this cannot all be attributed 
to Saturn, as Pluto was also entering 0° Aries (1822). We often see major transitions in the financial 
system as Pluto changes signs—especially at 0° of the cardinal signs. For example, when Pluto 
entered 0° Libra (the opposing sign to Aries) some 152 years later, Nixon officially ended the U.S. 
dollar’s peg to gold in 1971. 
Saturn returned to Aries in 1849–52, in the uneasy calm after the revolutions of 1848 (with Ura-
nus and Pluto also in Aries, more than 50 European nations erupted into revolution). The dream of 
social equality had been quelled, but the machine age had begun. The California Gold Rush, peaking 
in 1849, injected vast liquidity into the global economy. The Compromise of 1850 admitted Califor-
nia to the Union, marrying conquest and commerce. In Europe, as the triple conjunction of Saturn, 
Uranus, and Pluto took place as all three planets were leaving Aries, the Great Exhibition of 1851 at 
London’s Crystal Palace displayed the industrial triumphs of the era: steam, iron, glass, and the logic 
of mass production. Yet behind the spectacle (Aries) lurked instability (Saturn in detriment). Karl 
Marx wrote in exile of the coming crises of overproduction. Louis-Napoléon’s coup of 1851 turned 
France’s Second Republic into an empire, revealing how swiftly economic anxiety (Saturn in detri -
ment) could be harnessed by authoritarian ambition (Aries). Saturn in Aries, ever the builder through 
destruction, oversaw a world re-engineering itself through technology and control. 
By 1878–81, those engines had multiplied. The Second Industrial Revolution was accelerating: 
Edison’s light bulb (1879) and Bell’s telephone turned communication and industry into twin pillars 
of a new economy. At the same moment, the Long Depression of the 1870s forced nations onto the 
discipline (Saturn) of the gold standard (Aries)—a Saturnian straitjacket promising stability at the 
cost of flexibility—as the United States resumed gold convertibility. The Congress of Berlin in 1878 
redrew the Balkans but also signaled the onset of economic imperialism: Africa carved into colonies, 
resources flowing outward, profits upward. By the 1950s, somewhere between 50% and 70% of the 
world’s gold reserves are thought to have originated from Africa! A quick look at world gold reserves 
over this period gives a clear indication of where those profits went. This reflects the bullying nature 
of Saturn in Aries, where nations take what is not theirs by force and call it confiscation. We are 
seeing a similar form of confiscation today in relation to cryptocurrencies—most official national 
reserves of these assets have been built through seizure. We are also seeing European nations fund 
Ukraine’s war efforts through confiscated Russian funds that were frozen in European banks. The 
brief Boer rebellion of 1881 and the assassination of Russia’s reformist tsar, Alexander II, the same 
year showed the tension between freedom (Aries) and order (Saturn) once again snapping. Techno -
logical light had come, but its shadows lengthened into imperial greed and revolutionary violence. 
60

--- PAGE 65 ---
When Saturn entered Aries in 1908, the fault lines of the old empires were already trembling. 
Within three years, the Ottoman, Chinese, and Mexican revolutions erupted, each toppling an 
exhausted order and resetting economic life. The Young Turks reopened the Ottoman parliament and 
sought industrial reform; in China, Sun Yat-sen’s revolution ended two millennia of dynastic rule, 
launching a turbulent republic; in Mexico, the revolt against Porfirio Díaz’s dictatorship was both 
social and agrarian—a struggle over land and labor that would shape Latin America for decades. In 
each case, economic modernization had outpaced political reform, and Saturn’s transit forced align-
ment through crisis. Meanwhile, in 1908, Ford’s Model T began production: the machine that would 
define 20th-century mass consumption. A new economy was born as old empires died, the archetypal 
marriage of Aries innovation and Saturnian structure. The Panic of 1907, which had paralyzed global 
finance, led to the founding of the Federal Reserve (1913) to provide a central lender of last resort, as 
Pluto entered 0° Cancer. It would go on to implement this role most notably during Pluto’s ingress at 
0° Capricorn during the Global Financial Crisis of 2007–09. 
The transit of 1937–40 brought the reckoning to its harshest form. The global economy, recover-
ing from the Great Depression, was militarized almost overnight. Hitler’s rearmament, Roosevelt’s 
mobilization of industry, and Japan’s invasion of China all turned factories (Saturn) into arsenals 
(Aries). The fiscal and moral discipline of Saturn fused with Aries’ appetite for conquest. In Sep -
tember 1939, as Saturn still stood in the Ram’s sign, the invasion of Poland ignited World War II. 
Economically, it ended unemployment and revived production; spiritually, it exposed the abyss that 
opens when structure serves destruction. Yet even here, renewal waited. By the time Saturn left Aries 
in 1940, the blueprints of the postwar order—from Keynesian economics to the dream of the United 
Nations—were already germinating beneath the rubble. During this transit, the Roosevelt Recession 
caused U.S. equities to crash nearly 50% before stabilizing in 1938. Gold, officially fixed at $35/ 
oz, was hoarded globally as central banks used it as the backbone of wartime finance. This resulted 
in one of the most important transfers of wealth, as the U.S. gold reserves rose from 28% to 30% of 
estimated global gold reserves in 1933 to 75% of global gold reserves after World War II. 
By 1967–69, Saturn in Aries took form not on the battlefield but in the marketplace of ideas. 
The postwar boom reached its apogee. Inflation stirred, unions demanded reform, and a global youth 
culture (Aries) challenged the hierarchies (Saturn) that had delivered prosperity without justice. The 
year 1968 became the archetype: students in Paris and workers in Detroit, reformers in Prague and 
civil rights marchers in Memphis all confronted the structures of authority (Saturn) with boldness 
(Aries). Economically, the system was creaking under its own success. The Bretton Woods gold–dol-
lar link, the foundation of postwar finance, began to strain; by the early 1970s it would snap. The 
London Gold Pool collapsed (1968) after unsustainable U.S. gold outflows. This resulted in gold 
being traded in the open market for the first time. Yet in the same years, the Apollo program culmi -
nated in the Moon landing—a feat of engineering discipline and visionary daring that epitomized 
Saturn in Aries at its noblest. The United States won the space race against Russia, but can it win the 
AI race against China? The first computers networked into ARPANET (the precursor to the modern 
internet) in 1969, quietly launching the digital era. From rebellion and technology alike arose a new 
economy of information. 
When Saturn returned to Aries, from 1996 to 1999, the world seemed united under the creed 
of globalization. Markets were liberalized, borders opened, and the internet wired the planet into 
a single nervous system. This was the high noon of neoliberal faith: productivity surging, inflation 
subdued, prosperity seemingly endless. Yet beneath the optimism lay the familiar pattern. The Asian 
61

--- PAGE 66 ---
financial crisis of 1997 tore through currencies and banks, revealing the fragility of deregulated capi-
tal. Russia’s default in 1998 echoed the debt collapses of earlier centuries. The World Trade Organi-
zation’s meeting in Seattle at the end of 1999 was besieged by protesters demanding accountability 
and equity—the collective Saturnian backlash against Aries’ reckless expansion. The euro’s launch in 
January 1999 symbolized both audacity and constraint: nations surrendering sovereignty (Aries) for 
stability (Saturn), a fusion of independence and structure that only Saturn in Aries could inspire. It is 
worth noting that the euro will soon be having its first Saturn return, a time of accountability when its 
structure and trust will be tested. Will the fiscal discipline and cohesion of the Eurozone hold? 
As Saturn once more crossed the vernal point in 2025, the world confronted a similar paradox. 
The digital and financial revolutions of the past three decades have created prosperity of scale unseen 
in history—and inequality and debt to match. Artificial intelligence promises both liberation (Aries) 
and unemployment (Saturn in detriment). Markets have become planetary abstractions, detached 
from the real economies of Earth and labor. Debt levels exceed comprehension; the climate itself 
registers humanity’s overdraft. The archetypal question returns: can we build a new order before 
the old one collapses of its own contradictions? Saturn in Aries will test the resilience of monetary 
and political institutions, as earlier cycles tested empires. Economic restructuring seems inevitable, 
perhaps through new currencies, digital or decentralized; perhaps through the reindustrialization and 
new economic alliances as demanded by supply-chain fragility; perhaps through the moral account -
ing of environmental cost. 
Patterns suggest that fiscal crises and technological leaps often coincide under this sky. As in 
1763, when imperial debts remade taxation; as in 1879, when the gold standard restored order after 
chaos; as in 1997, when the Asian contagion redrew financial discipline—so between 2025 and 2028 
we may expect the excesses of the previous era to meet their reckoning. Interest rates, inflation, and 
the social contract between capital and labor are all subject to revision. Yet out of constraint arises 
invention. Could we see digital or commodity-backed monetary reform, echoing past gold standard 
realignments? The same energies could yield breakthroughs in energy production, fusion, storage, or 
solar infrastructure, or new regulatory frameworks for AI and digital finance. Saturn in Aries insists 
on practical pioneering: bold beginnings anchored in responsibility. 
Culturally, this transit often coincides with generational assertion. Youth movements in 1820, 
1848, 1968, and 1999 all bore its signature. In the mid-2020s, the generation born after the millen -
nium reaches political maturity. Their priorities—climate repair, equity, mental health, and techno -
logical ethics—may drive the next reformation. Their ideological stance around freedom in Palestine 
is very different from that of the leading institutions.
 Economically, this could manifest as a redefinition of value itself: away from extraction and 
speculation, toward sustainability and purpose. Just as the industrial world once learned to harness 
steam, and the digital world to harness code, humanity now must learn to harness consciousness—to 
direct innovation toward sustainable survival rather than speed. Prior cycles have shown that stock 
markets reach a mature or speculative high just before or early in the transit, then undergo correction 
or structural reform. We are late in the 18-year cycle, and I would expect the bubble (Aries) to burst 
(Saturn) during this transit. 
The financial world, too, stands at a crossroads. Central banks face the dilemma of stabilizing 
inflation without stifling growth; the global South demands a more just debt architecture; energy 
transitions require unprecedented investment. History suggests that Saturn in Aries favors decisive 
62

--- PAGE 67 ---
structural action: the establishment of new systems rather than patchwork reform. With Pluto having 
also changed signs, we are likely to see significant change in the world financial order by the end of 
this transit—perhaps an international agreement redefining carbon markets, a coordinated digital-
currency regime, a move away from the petrodollar, the rise of a new economic superpower (China) 
or bloc (BRICS), or a new social contract between automation and employment. Each would mirror 
earlier patterns—the Bretton Woods of the 1940s, the gold standard of the 1870s, the euro of the 
1990s—moments when discipline met initiative and forged a new economic order. 
Yet Saturn’s lessons are never gentle. The crises that birth renewal demand are honesty and 
endurance. In 1939, humanity’s failure to restrain aggression led to war; in 1997, its failure to regu-
late capital led to collapse. The coming years will test whether we can integrate the impulsive inge -
nuity of Aries with Saturn’s long-term wisdom. If we chase innovation for its own sake, we risk 
another speculative bubble or environmental catastrophe. If those in power cling to obsolete political 
structures (Iran, Russia, North Korea, China, Venezuela, Myanmar, Sudan, Eritrea, Palestine), war 
will force the change. The balance lies in courage tempered by conscience. 
Astronomically, each Saturn ingress into Aries has introduced an epochal theme: industrialization 
in the 1760s, revolution in the 1790s, electrification in the 1880s, and globalization in the 1990s. The 
2020s version may well be the dawn of the post-carbon, post-analog civilization—or perhaps what I 
have coined as the “Cognitive Revolution,” as we hurl toward a period of unprecedented growth, at 
unprecedented speed, with the aid of AI and quantum computing, solving conflict, disease and resolv-
ing global issues with power beyond the limits of the human mind. The planet’s slow march reminds 
us that foundations take time, and that true beginnings require endings. Yet I have a feeling that we 
are going to need a seatbelt, for there is about to be a significant change in speed and projection. 
In summary, these are the key recurring patterns that I have been able to identify from studying 
the last ten transits of Saturn through Aries. Beneath the overarching undertone set by Pluto, then 
Neptune, and Uranus, these themes are the lower octaves through which mundane activity will mani-
fest over the next three years: 
• Crisis that restructures the world order: war, revolution, or diplomacy resulting in the end 
of the status quo and the painful birth of a new international configuration. 
• Surge in revolutionary and nationalist movements: waves of popular uprisings, revolu -
tions, and surging nationalist sentiment; peoples asserting new identities or rights and rebel-
ling against entrenched authority. 
• Technological and economic turning points: technological breakthroughs and shifts in the 
economic structure that transform society. 
• Authoritarian backlash and power centralization: harsh authoritarian responses or power 
consolidations (Napoleon III after 1848, Putin’s consolidation of power in 1999, etc.). 
• Ideological birth and cultural shift: emergence of new ideologies or cultural movements 
that leave a deep mark (V oltaire, Marx, the Women’s Liberation Movement, the Taliban, and 
Al-Qaeda). 
• The old order reaching a breaking point and the new order struggling to be born: often 
amid conflict, the fall of kings and the rise of new leaders. 
63

--- PAGE 68 ---
• Major market inflection point: there is a very high correlation with the four-year stock 
market trough forming during or shortly before (a couple of months) this transit. Therefore, 
it is a period marked by contraction, which tends to coincide with revaluations of the role 
of gold, whether symbolic (in its value) or structural (as an anchor for the global financial 
system). 
64

--- PAGE 69 ---
JUPITER IN LEO: THE HEART OF POWER 
by Pouyan Zolfagharnia, MMA Analyst 
Jupiter in Leo, the expansive king in the sign of the solar king, moves in a twelve-year rhythm, 
and with each pass it casts humanity into a grand drama. When Jupiter—largest of planets and benev-
olent Zeus of old—journeys through fiery Leo, life imitates myth: courage and optimism swell, egos 
and faith burn bright, and creative fervor shakes the world stage with progress. In classical astrol -
ogy, Jupiter signifies wisdom, abundance, and moral law; Leo, ruled by the Sun, embodies royalty, 
pride, exuberance, luxury, and the childlike flame of creativity and pleasure. Together they form the 
archetype of the philosopher king—the magnanimous lion—leadership that is decisive, theatrical, 
and often accompanied by hubris. Jupiter will enter Leo on June 30, 2026, and remain there until July 
26, 2027. 
To understand what this period has in store for us, let’s look back at Jupiter’s last ten passages 
through Leo, how they coincided with eras of renaissance and reckoning, and how markets, particu-
larly the metal of Leo, Gold, flared and faltered alongside the pageant of history. 
Jupiter magnifies the influence of the sign it transits, and as you will see, prior passages through 
Leo have all brought about the rise (Jupiter) to power (Leo) of new empires, kings, religious lead -
ers, statesmen, and cultural icons—all resilient in Leo’s principle of self-determination. As a con -
sequence, this often leads to conflict and turmoil, which in turn impact the markets. Yet it is not 
just the sign being transited that is affected, as each sign sits on an axis and influences the opposing 
sign and even portions of the signs at 90° to it. Thus, we see recurring themes of the Leo–Aquarius 
axis: individual radiance–collective vision, love–humanity, passion–compassion, wealth–equality, 
sovereignty–solidarity, recognition–contribution, heart–mind, arrogance–detachment, hubris–revo -
lution, dogma–fanaticism. This helps explain the connection between Gold (Leo) and cryptocurren -
cies (Aquarius) as an axis for stores of value, with Gold having long anchored the Taurus–Scorpio 
financial axis and cryptocurrencies perhaps destined to do so in the future. In much the same way that 
the father–mother polarity (fourth and tenth houses) sustains the self (first house), or that one’s home 
and vocation (fourth and tenth houses) provide the foundation for the marital partnership (first and 
seventh houses), these twin instruments of wealth mirror the ancient balance between possession and 
power, matter and transformation. 
From 1907 to 1908, Jupiter in Leo oversaw the world on the brink of modern transformation. 
That August, the British and Russian Empires set aside a century of rivalry to sign their convention 
in St. Petersburg, helping form the Triple Entente. It felt as though the great powers, under Jupiter’s 
auspices, were lifting their gaze toward a wider balance. Yet the age of imperial showmen and rob -
ber barons had not dimmed. In October 1907, a panic on Wall Street threatened systemic collapse 
(the DJIA fell 48.5% to a 4-year cycle trough) until J. P. Morgan (born under Jupiter in Leo), as if a 
mortal stand-in for Jupiter, personally orchestrated a $25 million rescue fund. Gold underpinned the 
system, its price fixed, but the run on reserves revealed how demand for the metal rises during this 
transit. Even as bankers played savior, the future was wheeling in. Henry Ford (a Leo native) rolled 
out the Model T in 1908—mass mobility made manifest—while the Young Turk Revolution pushed 
the Ottoman Empire toward constitutional reform. Something was gathering: alliances, technologies, 
65

--- PAGE 70 ---
and new ideals and ideas. (In 1907, Albert Einstein had his “happiest thought,” which led to the 
theory of general relativity.) Jupiter in Leo smiled on the bravado, even as it warned that light without 
discipline burns. 
From 1919 to 1920, the planet returned to Leo as the world labored to heal from the Great War. 
Statesmen redrew maps and promised “never again.” The Treaty of Versailles aimed to seal peace, 
and the League of Nations opened in January 1920 as a forum for concord. Jupiter’s optimism shone 
through Leo’s regal posture—vision, dignity, the wish to lead nobly. Yet the lion’s shadow—ego and 
humiliation—was sown in punitive terms that would fester in Germany. There was a change of power 
and leadership (Leo); the democratic Weimar Republic was established as the Kaiser abdicated. We 
also witnessed the passing of the torch: old empires and dynasties were gone or dying (the Habsburgs, 
Romanovs, and Ottomans all fell by 1918), and new leaders stepped forward. Colossal figures who 
shone brightly in history and evoked a sense of national pride and power included Kemal Atatürk in 
Turkey, Saad Zaghloul in Egypt (leading the 1919 protests), and Mohandas Gandhi in India, who in 
1920 launched the Non-Cooperation Movement, harnessing Indian pride against British rule. Iran’s 
Reza Khan was also rising to power and would soon lead a coup d’état, seizing control from the Qajar 
dynasty in 1921. Under the League of Nations mandate, the Middle East was carved up among the 
European victors, marking this region as a repeating theme in all future Jupiter-in-Leo transits. At the 
same time, Jupiter’s justice widened. In August 1920, American women won the vote after genera -
tions of struggle—the lioness at last heard under the 19th Amendment. Markets swelled with postwar 
speculation as the crest of the 4-year cycle formed in November 1919. Inflation skittered, and curren-
cies strained against their anchors. As a result of World War I, the United States became the world’s 
dominant holder of Gold, as its reserves rose from 25% (prewar) to 40%. 
From 1931 to 1932, the world lay in darkness. The Great Depression had shattered confidence, 
and from the high of 1929 to 1932, equities fell to a fraction of their former worth. The DJIA declined 
89.5% as the trough of the 72-year cycles formed. Jupiter in Leo amplifies whatever it touches—light 
and shadow alike—and here it magnified the extremes. In politics, the stage was set for dramatic 
leadership changes. In the United States, the 1932 election swept Franklin D. Roosevelt into office 
with a promise of bold, persistent experimentation—Leo-like courage tempered by care—in the New 
Deal. In Germany, economic ruin stoked national pride as Hitler’s Nazi Party rose to power in the 
Reichstag. In Asia, Imperial Japan invaded China; in the Middle East, Saudi Arabia was born; and in 
Iraq, King Faisal died and his son Ghazi took the throne (a theme that may repeat in Saudi Arabia dur-
ing this transit). Gold, the Sun’s metal, was dragged into the storm. In September 1931, Britain aban-
doned the gold standard, currencies devalued, bullion surged, and the old monetary order cracked. 
It was as if the world’s gold had to melt so a new shape could be poured. Even then, Jupiter’s gift 
persisted. In labs and studios, breakthroughs glimmered. James Chadwick’s discovery of the neutron 
in 1932 lit the heart of matter—proof that in the deepest night, a spark remains. 
From 1943 to 1944, the world was ablaze, and Jupiter in Leo presided over a pivot. Markets, sub-
dued by years of fear, began to rise as victory seemed within reach. In June 1944, D-Day embodied 
the transit’s courage and gamble alike, as millions acted as one in a hazardous leap toward liberation. 
At the same time, on the hillsides of New Hampshire, delegates drafted a new financial architecture. 
The Bretton Woods Agreement yoked the U.S. Dollar to gold as the financial torch of power passed 
from sterling to the United States. By the end of World War II, U.S. gold holdings accounted for 75% 
of global reserves. The aim was Jupiterian: to wed wisdom and generosity, to make prosperity share-
able and chaos less likely through the creation of the World Bank and the International Monetary 
66

--- PAGE 71 ---
Fund. This period encapsulated Leo’s motifs of victory, pride, and noble cause, led by the “Big 
Three” shaping history at the Tehran (a Leo city) Conference. During this period, the first program -
mable computer was built in Britain, and the first long-range guided missiles were developed in Ger-
many. In fact, it was the German brain drain that would go on to ignite the space race after the war. 
In the Middle East, Lebanon achieved independence from France (a Leo country), tensions between 
Jewish and Arab communities began to intensify in Palestine, and—most significantly—the Anglo-
American Petroleum Agreement was signed, as the new empire assumed the mantle from the old. 
From 1955 to 1956, the transit brought drama of a different kind. In the United States, the civil 
rights movement broke into global consciousness (Sun) in August 1955 with a Leo stellium trig -
gered by the shocking (Uranus) and brutal (Mars) lynching (Pluto) of an innocent (Venus) child 
(Leo), Emmett Till. This was the year when Rosa Parks sat and the Montgomery Bus Boycott stood. 
A young Martin Luther King Jr. emerged, preaching nonviolence as Gandhi had during the 1920 
transit of Jupiter through Leo. Jupiter’s principle of moral law fused with Leo’s ardor. Rock ’n’ roll 
exploded, and Elvis became a national phenomenon. Creative fire tore through old barriers and lit a 
generation’s voice. Abroad, Hungary revolted against Soviet rule, and in Egypt, Gamal Abdel Nasser 
(born under a Saturn–Neptune conjunction in Leo) nationalized (Saturn) the Suez Canal (Neptune) 
and confronted imperial (Jupiter) pride (Leo). Markets were rising high in a postwar boom. Beneath 
the glow, fine cracks formed. The crest of the 4-year cycle formed in the equity markets (DJIA) 
during this period, followed by a 20.6% correction into the trough of the 4-year cycle in 1957. Dis -
neyland opened in California to great fanfare, heralding a new era of themed entertainment—Walt 
Disney’s vision realized. (Interestingly, Disney died in late 1966 under the next Leo cycle.) In sci -
ence, antimatter was first produced as Jupiter formed a conjunction with Pluto on the royal fixed star 
Regulus. During this transit, the Leo nation of France lost yet more colonies as Morocco and Tunisia 
gained independence. 
From 1966 to 1968, the world was a furnace. Youth revolted, culture reinvented itself, and the 
street became a stage. The Summer of Love gathered tens of thousands into a temporary city of music 
and peace. By 1968, ideals ignited global protests from Paris (a Leo city) to Prague to Mexico City, 
alongside American tragedies (the assassinations of Martin Luther King Jr. and Senator Robert F. 
Kennedy) and the grinding war in Vietnam. Jupiter made the personal political, and Leo made self-
expression a public rite. The period’s financial temperature rose, too, as U.S. equities formed another 
crest in the 4-year cycle in early 1966 and then fell sharply—a 26.5% decline in the DJIA—into the 
trough of that same cycle. The Dollar-to-Gold link strained as deficits mounted and reserves bled to 
defend the $35-per-ounce peg. The Sun’s metal began slipping from its altar, foreshadowing the end 
of convertibility a few years later. In March 1968, with Jupiter on Regulus (the heart of the Lion at 
29° Leo), the London Gold Pool collapsed—the first step toward a free-market pricing mechanism 
for Gold. Few moments in history reflect the grandeur of Jupiter in Leo more vividly than the day 
Mohammad Reza Pahlavi, Shah of Iran, ascended the Peacock Throne and was crowned King of 
Kings in a lavish ceremony steeped in centuries of imperial tradition. While Jupiter had just left Leo, 
it remained within orb of Regulus. This was also a period of breathtaking innovation. The first human 
heart (Leo) transplant was performed, and the Apollo program prepared to circle the Moon. Earth -
rise, photographed just after Jupiter left Leo, offered the most Leonine image of all: our luminous 
home, fragile and whole. During this transit, the map of the Middle East was redrawn once again by 
the Six-Day War, as the Lion of Judah occupied East Jerusalem, the West Bank, Gaza, Sinai, and the 
Golan Heights. Farther east, Mao Zedong launched the Chinese Cultural Revolution as he empow -
ered the militant youth, the Red Guards. 
67

--- PAGE 72 ---
From 1978 to 1979, Jupiter returned and inflation roared. Gold vaulted from $207 to over $500 
before the cycle was out, on its way to a blow-off top of $875 in January 1980. Stagflation gnawed 
at real returns, equities staged a 28.2% correction in the DJIA, and oil shocks amplified fear. On 
the world stage, millions in Iran toppled a monarch and proclaimed a religious leader in the streets 
of Tehran, while in Rome (another Leo city), a Polish philosopher became John Paul II (who had a 
Jupiter–Neptune conjunction in Leo on his MC), radiating a moral charisma that would bend history. 
With the rise of charismatic leaders, Margaret Thatcher became the first female prime minister of the 
United Kingdom, echoing the theme of the 19th Amendment during the 1920 transit. V oyager 1 flew 
past Jupiter and gifted humanity close-ups of storms the size of worlds. When the planet left Leo, the 
inflation dragon was being hunted down. Monetary austerity and discipline soon tamed prices, and 
a long equity bull market would follow. In the Middle East, the Camp David Accords were signed 
between Anwar Sadat and Menachem Begin (who later shared the Nobel Peace Prize). An echo of 
the formation of Saudi Arabia in 1932 was the seizure of the Grand Mosque in Mecca in 1979 by 
militants opposing the royal family. 
From 1990 to 1991, the passage brought endings and beginnings. On October 3, 1990, Germany 
reunited after the fall of the Iron Curtain and the Berlin Wall. By Christmas 1991, the Soviet flag 
was lowered from the Kremlin for the last time. The lion of empire lay down, and the pride of new 
nations stood blinking in the cold light. For a moment, Jupiter in Leo felt like a benediction—noble 
pride in freedom and a promise of peace. Markets wavered as another crest (July 1990) and trough 
(October 1990) of the 4-year cycle formed, following a 22.5% correction in the DJIA. A short and 
sharp recession followed as oil spiked 165% over four months, and Operation Desert Storm triggered 
the Persian Gulf War, liberating Kuwait after the pride and hubris that led to Saddam’s overreach. 
Gold, now fully market-priced, served as a modest refuge. The lesson was familiar: pride before cor-
rection, and expansion followed by recalibration. Yet the transit’s grace endured in images—Mandela 
(with a Saturn–Neptune conjunction in Leo in his natal chart) walking free, Yeltsin (Mars in Leo in 
his natal chart) atop a tank, and millions singing in the streets of a reunited Berlin. During this period, 
the Yugoslav Wars began as Croatia and Slovenia declared independence. In India, former Prime 
Minister Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated. It also marked the dawn of the World Wide Web, as Tim 
Berners-Lee developed the first web browser. 
During the 2002 to 2003 transit, the dot-com bubble had already burst, as the markets formed a an 
18-year cycle trough (last seen with Jupiter in Leo during 1932). The DJIA fell 39.7% from its cycle 
crest in 2000, while the NASDAQ imitated the Great Depression as it collapsed 83.7%. On Febru -
ary 15, 2003, with the Sun conjunct Uranus in Aquarius (humanity, revolt, mass protests), millions 
gathered in over 600 cities worldwide in an unprecedented day of protest against the impending war, 
with estimates of 6 to 10 million participants—the largest demonstration in human history. The U.S.-
led coalition launched Operation Iraqi Freedom on the spring equinox, invading Iraq to topple Sad -
dam’s regime in Baghdad (a famed Leo city whose moment of inception was diligently planned by 
Persian astrologers Naubakht al-Ahwazi and Mashallah ibn Athari to ensure the city would prosper 
and withstand foreign invasion). It came as no surprise to see a prolonged and contentious war. Gold, 
a barometer of fear and geopolitical turmoil, began a powerful bull run from roughly $300 toward 
heights unimagined, and the euro was launched in physical form. During this period, the Human 
Genome Project (launched during the prior Jupiter transit) was declared complete, mapping all the 
genes in human DNA. Also in this transit—and relevant to future transits—the controversial Iranian 
nuclear program was revealed by Israeli Mossad agents. Arnold Schwarzenegger (a Leo native) was 
elected governor of California, reflecting the impact that Jupiter’s transit has on natives (note that 
68

--- PAGE 73 ---
Donald Trump won the 2024 election with Jupiter also transiting his Sun sign). At the box office, 
we saw record success with The Lord of the Rings: The Return of the King, and the seed of social 
networking was planted with MySpace. The SARS epidemic spread from Asia—a theme we would 
see again during the next transit. 
The most recent cycle, from 2014 to 2015, unfolded with hope and dialogue. On the world 
stage, President Barack Obama (a Leo native) was instrumental in bringing about major triumphs 
of global cooperative spirit: world powers and Iran reached a historic nuclear agreement (July 14, 
2015) to curb Iran’s nuclear program; nearly 200 countries adopted the Paris Agreement on cli -
mate change; and the United States and Cuba announced a thaw in relations, ending over 50 years 
of Cold War–era estrangement. The theme of the civil rights movement of 1955 echoed in the 
slogan “Black Lives Matter.” During the transit, the 50-day Gaza War erupted between Israel and 
Hamas, and Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 was shot down over eastern Ukraine amid the Donbas 
war—both themes that remain ongoing. In Africa, the Ebola epidemic peaked, echoing the SARS 
outbreak of the previous transit. Ireland became the first country to legalize same-sex marriage by 
popular vote, just as gay marriage was also legalized in the United States—a landmark civil rights 
expansion. In the markets, the DJIA formed its 4-year cycle crest and trough after a 16.2% correc -
tion. Gold, having peaked in 2011, was still in a grinding bear market that ultimately saw a 45.7% 
correction end in December 2015. 
Across more than a century, the rhythm is unmistakable. Jupiter in Leo magnifies confidence, 
and confidence drives markets, art, and politics to their limits. Across the past ten transits, we have 
seen five instances of a 4-year cycle crest form in the equity markets and seven instances of a 4-year 
cycle trough, two of which were also 18-year cycle troughs (1932 and 2002). We are currently in the 
time band for the 18-year cycle trough, which means the upcoming Jupiter transit from June 30, 2026, 
until July 26, 2027, remains a key period in which history may repeat itself. Based on this study, there 
is a 50% chance that a 4-year cycle crest will form during this period. In the remaining five cases 
where the crest did not form with Jupiter in Leo, it formed with Jupiter in Aries–Gemini. Given that 
we know the current cycle is forming crests beyond the historical pattern, this increases the likelihood 
of a crest forming during this period. The sample also provides a 70% probability of a 4-year cycle (or 
greater) trough forming during the same period. Of the five cases where the crest formed with Jupiter 
in Leo, three of them (60%) also formed a trough in the same period. 
In its relatively shorter free-market existence, Gold also tends to rally during Jupiter’s tran -
sits through Leo. As we have seen in past transits, despite being fixed, the demand for Gold often 
unhinged the global system. 
In its even shorter existence, Bitcoin has experienced only one Jupiter-in-Leo transit, during 
which it formed a 4-year cycle trough in January 2015, having dropped 86.8% over 14 months from 
its crest in November 2013. Therefore, I am looking for Bitcoin to form a 4-year cycle trough during 
this period. 
Prior transits have shown a pattern of transitions in leadership as charismatic figures took the 
torch of power. Every transit has revealed the rise and fall of leaders, dynasties, and even empires. 
Therefore, this transit marks a changing of the guard—whether through elections, revolutions, war, 
or deaths—as leadership itself is in the spotlight. As such, national pride, power politics, and conflict 
will go hand in hand and most often result in war, military campaigns, or their conclusion. 
69

--- PAGE 74 ---
Post–World War II, the focus appears to be on the Middle East, with a strong correlation to 
geopolitical turmoil in Iran, Saudi Arabia, and Israel. It is also interesting to note that many Jupiter 
transits of Leo are accompanied by major earthquakes in Iran, within an orb of six to nine months. 
They have also brought about waves of protests for liberal rights, especially among those marginal -
ized in society, demanding greater equality and representation—such as women’s suffrage (1920), 
the civil rights movements of 1955 and 1968, and the LGBT movement in 2014. We often see a 
cultural renaissance in entertainment and art. We also see breakthroughs in science and technology 
(Leo–Aquarius axis). Most importantly, no matter what is happening, the world finds an opportunity 
to party. 
Over the past century, every single Jupiter-in-Leo transit has aligned with active or preparatory 
U.S. military operations, ranging from regional interventions to world wars. These include the U.S. 
“Banana Wars” of 1907; post–World War I occupations and the Russian intervention of 1919–20; the 
1931–32 military interventions in Latin America (Nicaragua and Haiti); the peak phase of World War 
II during 1943–44; the Vietnam War in 1955 and its continuation through the 1966–68 Tet Offen -
sive; NATO modernization and covert operations in Afghanistan during 1978–79 (Operation Cyclone 
financing, arming, and training the Mujahideen); the 1990–91 Gulf War; the 2002–03 Iraq War and 
War on Terror in Afghanistan; and the 2014–15 ISIS campaign across Iraq and Syria. 
Leo represents authority, pride, and the guardianship of power. Jupiter magnifies whatever it 
touches, turning confidence into destiny and purpose into conviction. Under this influence, national 
pride expands, moral justification strengthens, and the belief in a global or divine mission takes 
hold. Just as the lion defends its pride with strength and devotion, the United States lifts the torch of 
democracy and liberation, often entering military engagements with a sense of higher calling. What 
begins as guardianship can become assertion, as the light of virtue merges with the fire of ambition 
and hubris. This is a remarkable pattern that is likely to repeat, especially given the themes of the 
preceding chapters—Saturn in Aries, Uranus in Gemini, Neptune in Aries, and Pluto in Aquarius. 
Shortly after its ingress into Leo, Jupiter will oppose Pluto in the summer of 2026. As the Sun trans-
lates this aspect in late July (the lunations of July 29 or August 12 are important +/− 3 days), or as 
Mars translates it later in the year (October 3 to November 15), we could see an explosive manifesta-
tion of this pattern. 
During the past ten cycles, a subtle yet persistent pattern of epidemics, pandemics, or significant 
public health crises within an orb of one year on either side of the transit has been noted. This pattern 
is relevant, as it also relates to the Saturn–Neptune conjunction taking place in 2026. In 1907–08, 
we saw the Typhoid Health Reforms, tuberculosis campaigns, and cholera and plague outbreaks in 
India, Egypt, and China. In 1919–20, the Spanish flu pandemic swept the world. In 1931–32, we 
faced global malnutrition and disease linked to the Great Depression, including famine-related epi -
demics in Iran and China. The 1943–44 transit brought World War II epidemics and the mass produc-
tion of penicillin. In 1955–56, the polio vaccine went global, and the Asian flu pandemic began. In 
1966–68, the Hong Kong flu pandemic emerged while smallpox eradication intensified—and was 
finally achieved during the 1978–79 transit. In 1990–91, we saw the cholera pandemic; in 2002–03, 
the SARS outbreak; and in 2014–15, the Ebola epidemic and MERS outbreak. We can see a clear 
correlation between major outbreaks and breakthroughs in disease control. 
As Jupiter transits Leo again from 2026 to 2027, confidence and creativity will swell. New lead-
ers will stride onto bright stages. Movements will demand recognition. The arts will surprise. The 
70

--- PAGE 75 ---
young will roar. Markets may glow, and Gold may signal turns in trust. The challenge, perennial and 
practical, is to channel the blaze without letting it scorch. We can widen the circle of benefit without 
inflating the crown. We can build architectures that outlast charisma. The story, then, is a story of 
heart—the heart of a civilization daring greatly, sometimes stumbling through hubris and sometimes 
soaring through genius. Treaties signed and broken, movements ignited and souls awakened, wars 
waged and peace negotiated, scientific horizons widened and cultures reborn—these are the living 
footprints of Jupiter in Leo. The cycles do not repeat mechanically. They rhyme. 
In summary, these are the key recurring patterns that I have identified from studying the last ten 
transits of Jupiter through Leo. Beneath the overarching undertone set first by Pluto, then Neptune, 
Uranus, and Saturn, these themes are the lower octaves through which mundane activity will manifest 
between June 2026 and July 2027: 
• Leadership and power: Each transit magnifies questions of authority and moral courage, 
bringing dramatic rises and falls of leaders on the world stage. 
• Creative renaissance: Periods under Jupiter in Leo coincide with cultural explosions in art, 
music, and technology that redefine self-expression and collective identity. 
• Market inflection point: There is a 70% probability that the 4-year or greater cycle trough 
will form in the DJIA and Bitcoin during this transit. 
• Gold as a store of wealth: This transit tends to boost demand for Gold. 
• Moral drama and collective movements: Mass demonstrations and social awakenings 
surge as people find their voice and demand recognition or justice. 
• Rebirth through crisis: Each cycle brings transformative turning points—economic resets, 
wars, or social upheavals that renew the world order. The United States has always been 
involved in some form of military engagement during these periods. 
• Innovation and discovery: Scientific and technological breakthroughs emerge, revealing 
humanity’s creative daring under the fire of Leo. 
• Pandemics or epidemics: There is a clear correlation with major outbreaks and break -
throughs in disease control. 
71

--- PAGE 76 ---
THE NODAL CYCLES AND THE ECONOMY IN 2026 
“He warned that U.S. government debt is rising too quickly, creating a climate ‘that’ s very 
much analogous to the years before World War II.’” 
—“Ray Dalio Warns of Soaring Debt and ‘Civil War’ Brewing in U.S.,” Bloomberg News, 
October 9, 2025. 
REVIEW 
Last year’s Forecast 2025 book provided an outlook for the national and world economy for the 
next few years. It is still useful, as it continues to be accurate. It stated: 
“Based on these Lunar Nodal cycles, the passage of the Moon’ s North Node from 28° Gemini 
through 16° Pisces seems to be a relatively ‘safe’ economic period. This time band is coming to 
an end starting October 2025, which doesn’t mean a recession begins immediately, but it does 
mean that the possibility of a recession begins to increase after that.” 
As of this writing in October 2025, the U.S. economy has been in “a relatively safe period,” as 
forecasted. However, several signs point to a struggle ahead as various economic data indicate the 
U.S. economy is starting to show signs of slowing down. Employment numbers are decreasing, while 
inflation remains stubbornly above the Fed’s targeted 2% level. In response, the Federal Reserve 
Board has decided to focus more on the dangers of an economic slowdown rather than on the contain-
ment of inflation. Hence, the central bank has started a new round of lowering its short-term interest 
rates (Fed Funds rate), which will have to be adjusted again if inflation starts to rise too much. 
In this chapter, we examine the imminent geocosmic factors that correlate with recessions. 
THE LUNAR NODAL CYCLE AND THE ECONOMY BY SIGNS 
The outlook on the economy is based primarily on my research replicating the studies of the 18.6-
year Lunar Nodal cycle, first introduced by Louise McWhirter in her classic work titled McWhirter’ s 
Theory of Stock Market Forecasting (American Federation of Astrologers, 1938, Tempe, Arizona). In 
her research on the business cycle prior to 1938, she found that the U.S. economy often bottoms when 
the Moon’s North Node transits through Aquarius and peaks in the sign of Leo. 
This model worked quite well during her research period in the late 1930s. That is, the peak of 
the business cycle had a very strong correlation with the North Node in Leo, and a bottom frequently 
occurred when the Moon’s North Node was in Aquarius. Many financial astrologers still refer to this 
model, but there have been far fewer recessions since 1938 than there were before then. 
The date range for cycle lows and highs in the economy has expanded since McWhirter’s work in 
1938. In my formal study of the 14 recessions in the U.S. since McWhirter’s book was published, the 
findings differ slightly from McWhirter’s original work. Instead of an economic low occurring near 
the middle of Aquarius, these new studies show that a recession is more likely to unfold within a 45° 
orb of 0° Capricorn, or 15° Aquarius through 15° Scorpio, as shown in the diagram below. 
72

--- PAGE 77 ---
Figure 7: The Merriman Nodal Correlation with Economic Cycles. The rectangle denotes where the 
Lunar North Node will be in 2026, starting at about 10° Pisces and ending the year near 22° Aquarius 
(the Node moves backward, or retrograde, through the signs). 
In the study of this nodal correlation with economic recessions since 1938, it was determined that 
“… a recession occurred in all five instances of the Moon’ s North Node’ s transit between 15° Aquar-
ius and 15° Scorpio.” When you consider that over 40% of recessions since 1938 happened within 
only 25% of the signs, and that in all five cases of the Lunar Nodes being between 15° Aquarius and 
15° Scorpio since then did indeed correspond to a recession, that seems noteworthy. 
Yet there were other interesting findings in this study. In seven of the 14 recessions since 1938, 
the Lunar North Node transited between 16° Pisces and 1° Scorpio. That is, half of the cases occurred 
when the Lunar North Node was in a 135° sector of the 360° zodiac. Also, six recessions occurred 
between 16° Pisces and 25° Scorpio, which covers an arc of only 111°. Thus, this may be considered 
the “hot zone” for a recession, which is now in effect from October 2025 through August 2031. 
The “hottest” of the “hot zone” could also be considered when the Lunar North Node is posited 
between 1° Pisces and 1° Sagittarius. Five of the recessions have overlapped during this sector of the 
signs, which projects out to June 2026–March 2031 in current time. 
73

--- PAGE 78 ---
There are other geocosmic factors that can help narrow down this time band. The Saturn–Neptune 
conjunction, for instance, has correlated with major recessions in the U.S. either during or shortly 
after (within one year) their conjunction. This 36-year cycle is again underway from the summer of 
2025 through February 2026. If history repeats itself, we could expect a recession to unfold sometime 
between 2026 and the end of 2027. As one can see, this overlaps the time band of the Lunar North 
Node transiting in our “hot zone” for a recession, as discussed above. 
It is also quite possible there will be more than one recession during this hot zone period (July 
2026–March 2031), as this time band will coincide with the balsamic phase of the Saturn–Uranus 
cycle. The balsamic phase of a planetary cycle covers the last 45° (waning semi-square) and is asso-
ciated with a time when the dynamics of the cycle are usually in conflict. It is a time when the col -
lective realizes something is coming to an end. Matters of importance just aren’t working anymore, 
and something new has to begin. It’s a Pluto-like period, even though Pluto is not involved in the 
Saturn–Uranus balsamic period. But, as shown in the prior chapter, transiting Pluto at 3°–7° Aquarius 
is intensely involved with the Sun–Moon opposite Uranus in the Chart of Mankind (3°–7° of the 
fixed signs Taurus–Scorpio). 
Historically, the balsamic phase of the Saturn–Uranus cycle has relevance to the world and 
national economy, as multiple recessions often happen in this relatively short period, especially when 
near the onset of the waning semi-square. Saturn and Uranus will be in their last 45° waning semi-
square phase from April 12, 2027, through January 12, 2028, though the entire balsamic period will 
last until summer 2032, when the two planets conjoin each other. The economy tends to struggle 
slightly before and during the semi-square time, but usually recovers smartly by the arrival of the 
conjunction, which will take place on June 28, 2032. 
As described in last year’s book, “… the last two times these two planets were in their waning 
semi-square aspect to one another were 1981-1982 and 1937. These were painful secondary reces -
sions to the even more serious recession depths of 1974 and 1932, respectively. The economy strug-
gled during these periods but then recovered sharply going into—or coming out of—the conjunction. 
I expect the same this time, given the overlap of these cycles in 2026-2031.” But the point remains 
that there may be more than one recession during this five-year period, as there were in the balsamic 
phases of 1981–1988 and 1937–1942. 
Last year’s book also highlighted a third geocosmic cycle related to the economy of the near 
future: the Jupiter–Saturn cycle. Here is how that cycle works. The economy and global stock market 
cycles tend to perform well within one year of the 20-year conjunction between Jupiter and Saturn. 
Then, as they approach their waxing semi-square two to three years later, there is a financial and 
military crisis. This is usually followed by a strong economy and stock market occurring during the 
third through the sixth years after their conjunction. But then, in years seven to nine, there is a more 
serious economic and financial crisis heading into the Jupiter–Saturn opposition. 
In current terms, the Jupiter and Saturn synodic (conjunction) cycle began on December 21, 
2020. There was a financial and military crisis that erupted in 2022–2023. The “growth” part of the 
cycle is now in effect from 2023 to 2026. However, the seven- to nine-year period of an economic 
and stock market crisis is due 2027-2030, which overlaps with both the Saturn–Neptune conjunction, 
Saturn–Uranus waning semi-square, and the Lunar North Nodal cycle described above. They all 
overlap in the year 2027, which is the “sweet spot” for a recession. But these potential events related 
to long-term geocosmic cycles can have an orb of up to one year on either side. 
74

--- PAGE 79 ---
For the year 2026, the Moon’s North Node will begin at 11° Pisces and end at 22° Aquarius. As 
shown by the figure of the Merriman Nodal Cycle earlier in this chapter, this transit is passing out of 
the zone for a “normal” economic cycle and entering the period of “below-normal” economic activ-
ity after October 2025. Investors are encouraged to take these cycle probabilities into account when 
adjusting their portfolios over the next year. 
In my opinion, it will be wise to start building up cash and deleveraging from assets that cannot 
be liquidated quickly or that may be subject to severe downturns in a slowing economy that may 
gather momentum as we move through 2026. When (and if) a downturn occurs, those who have cash 
will be able to make new purchases at a heavily discounted price. But there is one thing to keep in 
mind: President Trump has a very low threshold for pain in the economy or stock markets. Under 
his reign, declines may be very sharp, yet they may also be relatively short-lived compared to most 
historical downturns. Most recessions and bear markets in stocks last over a year. But it would not 
be surprising if, under his volatile temperament, he would do whatever is within his power to correct 
any serious flash crashes within just a few months, even weeks. 
Plan your selling and repurchasing strategies accordingly, but by all means, plan to have cash 
on hand between 2026 and 2028 to take advantage of such “flash crashes” if they arise, as I believe 
they will. 
75

--- PAGE 80 ---
THE FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD: 
A FIGHT FOR CONTROL 
RE VIEW AND PREVIEW 
The Bureau of Labor Statistics says the U.S. job market is much weaker than initially believed. 
More than 900,000 fewer jobs were added in 2024 and 2025 than previously reported. The BLS 
issues revisions every year, but this change is the biggest on record and comes after President 
Trump fired the BLS commissioner after a weak monthly jobs report. 
—Geoff Bennett, “Revised Job Numbers Raise New Concerns About Economic Slow -
down,” PBS NewsHour, YouTube, September 9, 2025. 
Last year’s Forecast 2025 book correctly identified major challenges the Federal Reserve Board 
would encounter with the U.S. government. It stated, “Saturn (on the MC) is the demand, and Nep -
tune is the impracticality, the unrealism of the expectations to be met. Hampering the Fed at the same 
time is the fact that the Saturn–Neptune conjunction squares the Fed’ s Sun. It’ s not sure what to do. 
The Sun is the Chair of the Fed. If things go wrong, he is especially vulnerable to being a scapegoat, 
the person blamed. The Saturn–Neptune also squares Pluto in the 12th house of hidden enemies, of 
those who are doing reputational harm for a hidden agenda. So, we may have a case where someone, 
or some entity, is slandering the Fed or its Chair as part of a maneuver to gain power and control of 
the nation’ s central bank by eliminating the Chair or the institution (bank) itself.” 
The book went on to correctly state, “The situation is compounded when you look at the transit 
of Pluto (the terminator) on the FRB’ s natal Uranus (independence). It is happening near the 8th 
house cusp, which (like Pluto) has an astrological dynamic of termination. The message here is that 
a powerful force may try to take away the independence of the Fed and do so in a very underhanded 
and deceptive manner.” 
And finally, last year’s book concluded, “If a drama unfolds similar to that just described here, 
it will coincide with the bottom of the Aries Vortex abyss. It would be an epic struggle between the 
government and its central bank, probably between the president and the chairman of the Federal 
Reserve Bank…. The Fed needs to be very careful as it enters this period where its reputation, cred -
ibility, and even its existence may be on the line. It will need to fight to defend its reputation.” And 
this is just about the way it happened. 
Right from the beginning of his second term, President Trump threatened to remove FRB Chair 
Jerome Powell, even before his term had ended. The only problem was that he could not legally do 
so. Instead, he began replacing Fed governors who resigned with governors who would carry out 
his agenda. He has threatened to fire others and replace them with governors who will carry out his 
wishes to lower interest rates. It is a bold political move to take increasing control of the nation’s 
central bank. Indeed, the Fed’s independence is at risk. In fact, its very existence may be at risk. 
76

--- PAGE 81 ---
Figure 8: Transits (outer circle), February 20, 2026, to the Federal Reserve Board chart (inner circle). 
TRANSITS TO ITS FOUNDING CHART 
The Federal Reserve Act was signed into law by President Woodrow Wilson. The New York 
Times edition of December 24, 1913, reported that the Federal Reserve was created on December 23, 
1913, at 6:02 PM, in Washington, D.C. According to its own website, www.federalreserve.gov, “It 
was created by Congress to provide the nation with a safer, more flexible, and more stable monetary 
and financial system.” Basically, it does this by managing two mandates: inflation and unemploy -
ment. Its job is to keep both low, and by doing so, the economy supposedly functions well. 
Those two functions are currently in conflict with one another. The labor market has not been 
growing as robustly in 2025 as it was in 2024. Part of the problem was that the Bureau of Labor 
Statistics underreported by more than 900,000 the number of jobs that were added in 2024 and 
2025 than previously stated. The economy and labor market were not nearly as strong as thought, 
and subsequent reports supported that view. Hence, the Fed believed it was more important to 
stimulate the economy by starting a new round of lowering its benchmark Fed funds rate in the 
last quarter of 2025. This meant it was willing to risk that inflation would increase, even though 
77

--- PAGE 82 ---
it never fell to its preferred target of 2%. As rates fell, inflation began to creep up to 3% as this 
is being written. The Fed is now stuck—perhaps confused is a better word—as to what course of 
action to take. Does it continue to provide stimulus to a slowing economy with lower rates, as 
President Trump wishes? Or does it resume its fight to control inflation by raising rates? Or do 
nothing and see what happens? 
The transit of Saturn in hard aspect to natal points in the Fed chart indicates times of tighten -
ing or raising rates. Jupiter transits show when the Fed is in a more accommodative mood to lower 
rates and stimulate the economy. Neptune also leans toward lower rates but is often associated with 
poor judgment, uncertainty, or an unwillingness to take any action, one way or the other, regarding 
rate adjustments. 
The Aries V ortex finds both Saturn and Neptune conjoining on the Midheaven (MC) of the Fed 
chart and making a T-square to its Sun–Pluto opposition, while Jupiter transits back and forth over 
its Mars and Ascendant in opposition to its own Jupiter. This perfectly describes the Fed’s dilemma 
as we enter 2026. Jupiter wants to lower rates, Saturn wants to fight inflation, and Neptune isn’t sure 
what to do, for focusing on one part of its dual mandate means putting the other part at risk. In the 
meantime, the power struggle with the Executive Office continues to mount, with Saturn (authority 
and control) in hard aspect to Pluto (power). 
Transiting Jupiter will continue crisscrossing the Fed’s Ascendant and Mars, and opposing its 
Jupiter, through May 2026. That is when Jerome Powell’s tenure as Fed Chair ends. However, his 
term as a Fed governor continues until January 31, 2028. Will Trump terminate his role as Fed gover-
nor then as well? The Federal Reserve Act allows the president to remove members of the board only 
“for cause.” In June 2026, Jupiter (exaggeration and overacting) will conjoin the Fed’s natal Neptune, 
the planet of uncertainty and confusion. There is likely to be a lot of confusion after his term ends as 
Fed Chair. It should get very interesting as we approach that period in 2026. 
The drama doesn’t end, however, as 2026 finds transiting Pluto (coercion and force) conjoining 
the Fed’s natal Uranus (independence). This aspect comes within minutes of an exact conjunction in 
April–June 2026, before hitting its exact point with three conjunctions between February and Decem-
ber 2027. If the Fed is going to lose its independence, this might be the time. In fact, since an 18-year 
stock market cycle trough is due then—during which the DJIA could lose 35–65% from its all-time 
high—and the U.S. economy is in the Lunar Nodal cycle for a deep recession, the threat (or reality) 
of loss to the Fed’s independence could be the cause of a financial panic around that time. With Pluto, 
reforms and resolutions to conflicts are seldom easy. Yet reform and resolution to long-standing prob-
lems are the explanations offered for why the government has to take such draconian actions. With 
Pluto, change usually comes with a considerable amount of pain to the masses. 
In the meantime, Jupiter (accommodation) is in harmonious aspect to Mercury and Venus in the 
Fed’s chart in September 2026, so there may be another rate cut around that time. Saturn will also 
trine Mercury from June 2026 through March 2027, so there may be some stability then. However, it 
won’t dominate the powerful Pluto transit in conjunction with Uranus in the Fed’s chart, underlining 
the effort to possibly end the Fed’s independence. 
78

--- PAGE 83 ---
THE UNITED STATES IN 2026: 
EXCEPTIONALISM VERSUS STATUS DOWNGRADE 
American  exceptionalism is an idea that the United States of America is a unique and even 
morally superior country for historical, ideological, or religious reasons. Proponents of Amer-
ican exceptionalism generally pair the belief with the claim that the United States is obligated 
to play a special role in global politics. 
—Adam V olle, “American Exceptionalism,” 
www.brittanica.com. 
The past week I’ve talked to two historians, one rightish, one leftish, and both conversations 
turned toward Thomas Jefferson’ s stinging bill of particulars against King George III in the 
Declaration of Independence. They resonate in unexpected ways: “For cutting off our Trade 
with all parts of the world.” “He has excited domestic insurrections amongst us.” “He has 
kept among us, in times of peace, Standing Armies without the Consent of our Legislatures.” 
“He has erected a multitude of New Offices, and sent hither swarms of Officers to harass our 
people.” “Obstructing the Laws for Naturalization of Foreigners; refusing to pass others to 
encourage their migration hither.” The Founders didn’t want any of that. It’ s why they created 
a republic. 
—Peggy Noonan, “A Republic, But Can We Keep It?” www.wsj.com, October 24, 2025. 
REVIEW OF 2025 
Last year’s book, written in October-November 2024, well before Donald Trump’s second term 
in office began on January 20, 2025, correctly pointed out many of the issues that the nation would 
face. 
The book began with an overview of the nation’s military challenges. It stated: “Mars, in a 
nation’ s chart, rules its military. In a hard aspect from a progressed planet, it symbolizes perceived 
threats to the nation that could result in the deployment of its military. Is it to defend the nation 
against external threats? Possibly, as Mars is in the 9th house of foreign lands. Could it relate to 
domestic disturbances? That is possible, too, for Mars in the 9th house also relates to protesters, 
especially in colleges and universities.” The book went on to state, “….the president (could) take 
action that may involve the National Guard or military in 2025-2026 …. The progressed Sun (leader) 
in Pisces means the president will try to attain peace. But Mars in the 9th house may indicate others 
are in the mood to resist or fight him.” 
One of the most notable events of last year was the United States’ bombing of Iran in mid-June. 
This was done in order to stop Iran’s nuclear program, which posed an existential risk to Israel. Iran’s 
nuclear program was thus set back several years. Last year’s book specifically stated, “This same 
progressed aspect also brings into play the Mars-Neptune square in the chart of Iran. Thus, tensions 
between Iran and the United States may reach a point of crisis. This may be a time when the U.S. 
military is tested to see just how prepared and competent they are in handling foreign aggression.” 
On the economy, last year’s book stated, “…progressed Venus is separating from its opposition 
to progressed Saturn near the cusps of the 2nd and 8th houses and applying to a favorable sextile to 
Jupiter in Cancer. This may bode well for the Treasury.” The U.S. Treasury set a record for revenues 
received, according to the U.S. Treasury Fiscal Data. This should have helped balance the budget and 
79

--- PAGE 84 ---
cut back the deficit. Unfortunately, the outlays of funds exceeded the record revenues received, so the 
debt and deficit continued to increase despite record tax receipts. 
Still regarding the economy and financial matters, last year’s book pointed out, “But as they 
(Saturn and Neptune) straddle the Pisces-Aries boundary between March 2025 and February 2026, 
they will form a challenging waning square to the U.S. natal Venus in Cancer. This might be a time of 
financial crisis or a threat to the nation’ s central bank (the Federal Reserve Bank). The government 
may be very critical of the central bank and even demand more authority in their decision-making…. 
March 2025-February 2026 may be a very tense period between the Fed and the president.” Indeed, 
there was a brief financial crisis in early April 2025 when the president announced his “Liberation 
Day” tariffs, calling for new and high tariffs on other countries, even America’s allies. The president 
also tried to fire Fed Chair Jerome Powell and Fed Governor Lisa Cook, as he began making strides 
to insert new governors onto the Fed’s board who would carry out his wish for lower interest rates. 
Overall, the U.S. economy did well in 2025 as this is being written in mid-October. Employment 
is still growing, though at a slower pace than the previous year. The nation has continued to assert its 
dominance in military matters throughout the world, but particularly in the Middle East, where the 
president brokered the historic Gaza Peace Plan between Israel and Palestine in October. And ille -
gal immigration into the country is down significantly. These are all positives in the minds of most 
Americans, which relates to last year’s geocosmic analysis. 
Yet the nation continues to face many familiar and new formidable issues as it enters 2026. The 
partisanship of politics continues to be divisive and not unifying. The nation’s debt continues to rise, 
and corporations have become reluctant to hire new people and invest heavily in research and product 
development due to the nation’s uncertain trade policies. The new tariff policies are effectively a tax 
on businesses that import and will eventually result in higher costs for goods and services redirected 
onto consumers. The nation is now witnessing the deployment of its military and National Guard into 
several major cities at the direction of the president, and against the will of the leaders and citizens of 
those states. The president has commenced a retribution/revenge initiative against his opponents after 
campaigning on the promise that he would not do so, that his success would be his revenge. But law-
fare has indeed taken over much of the Justice Department’s duties, not to mention absorbing much 
of the daily headlines of news outlets. Protests against the style of government, allegations of cor -
ruption, violations of basic ethical principles, and money-grabbing by leaders of the administration 
are rising. This is leading to increased anxiety about the direction the nation is headed. The nation’s 
populace is in a sour mood as it begins the new year, despite claims to the contrary by the White 
House and MAGA. According to The Hill (October 22, 2025, 
www.thehill.com), “6 in 10 Say U.S. 
Headed in Wrong Direction.” The number is actually 62%, according to the article. In short, despite 
its success enhancing national security, the nation is experiencing growing anxiety and uncertainty 
about its future in the eyes of its citizens. 
Is the U.S. really a republic supported by principles of democracy and a government for the peo-
ple, of the people, and by the people, which has long been the view that has led to the idea of Ameri-
can exceptionalism for over two centuries? Or is it turning into an authoritarian regime where the 
people are coerced into accepting the dictates of the president and his followers without their consent 
or representation? There is even a question as to whether or not the Executive Branch has subsumed 
too many of the roles traditionally belonging to Congress. In short, the question arises: Does the idea 
of American exceptionalism continue to exist? And if so, in what form? Or is it changing form? 
80

--- PAGE 85 ---
With the Aries V ortex in full bloom, each of these issues and concerns is clearly connected to the 
parts of this unusual cosmic configuration. It accurately describes what the nation is undergoing and 
offers insight as to what it may undergo in the next year(s). This is a turning point in the role of the 
United States within the greater world body, as will be discussed herein as it relates to the powerful 
Aries V ortex. 
THE CHART OF THE UNITED STATES 
“High tariffs inevitably lead to retaliation by foreign countries and the triggering of fierce 
trade wars,’’ Ronald Reagan said. “The result is more and more tariffs, higher and higher 
trade barriers, and less and less competition. So, soon, because of the prices made artificially 
high by tariffs that subsidize inefficiency and poor management, people stop buying. Then the 
worst happens: Markets shrink and collapse; businesses and industries shut down; and mil -
lions of people lose their jobs.’’ 
—Ronald Reagan, as quoted from a radio address given April 25, 1987, written by Paul 
Wiseman, “Trump Says a Canadian Ad Misstated Ronald Reagan’s Views on Tariffs. 
Here Are the Facts and Context,” AP News (apnews.com), October 24, 2025. 
As noted in the annual Forecast book over the past several years, I use July 2, 1776. Previously, I 
had also used 11:50 AM in Philadelphia as the time of the founding chart of the U.S. for two reasons. 
First, it fits the history of when the vote for independence was taken, and second, the chart works 
well from an astrological viewpoint. However, no one really knows the exact time, or even day, the 
United States actually completed the vote for its independence. Yet due to the vast changes initiated 
in the United States in 2025, I am adjusting the time of its inception by 35 minutes earlier, to 11:15 
AM. I am rectifying the time to 11:15 AM because that will give the U.S. a 0° Libra rising. Given that 
the Aries V ortex involving Saturn and Neptune is conjunct at 0° Aries, and the Uranus–Pluto trine 
midpoint is also at 0° Aries, I think this slightly adjusted chart with those outer planet placements 
highlighting the 0° cardinal signs on the angles, aligns more closely with the events and changes that 
are occurring at this time in the United States. 
The new time still fits within the realm of possibilities as to when the vote for independence was 
completed. We know that the vote—the decision of the new nation to declare itself independent—was 
completed on July 2, 1776, according to David McCullough, historian, and author of the book 1776.
1 
And according to astrologer Gary Noel, in a discussion in the ISAR e-zine (www.isarastrology.org) 
several years ago, it is likely that the vote took place before noon because it was announced in the 
evening newspaper. In order to make the evening edition of the daily news, articles had to be submitted 
before noon. So 11:15 AM is still close but before noon, as was our previously used time of 11:50 AM. 
The adjustment in time does not change the position of the planets relative to their signs. They 
remain the same. Libra is still rising, which means Venus still rules the chart, but it is now even 
stronger than before as it resides right on the midheaven at 0° Cancer. This might make the case for 
America’s exceptionalism based on democracy, fairness, and the idea that “all men are created equal” 
even stronger. This revised chart still finds Saturn rising in Libra, where it is exalted, representing 
the importance of laws that are fair and policies that support equal rights for all citizens, which are 
also characteristics that have defined the view of exceptionalism often ascribed to the United States. 
However, these virtues are now being questioned by others both within and outside the U.S. as Saturn 
and Neptune transit the new descendant. 
81

--- PAGE 86 ---
Figure 9: Vote for U.S. Independence, July 2, 1776, 11:15 AM, Philadelphia, PA 
There are a couple of other astrological signatures that stand out in this chart, which are relevant 
to the idea of American exceptionalism and its foundation, steeped in the principles of democracy. 
Venus, the chart ruler, is not only on the MC (midheaven, uppermost part of the chart), but also 
conjunct both Jupiter and the Sun in Cancer. This is a very generous configuration, one that can sup-
port the vast amount of foreign aid the U.S. has provided to developing nations or those undergoing 
reconstruction, perhaps after a war or natural calamity. It is a symbol of patriotism and love for the 
nation by its people. It is also a signature of great and enduring success and prosperity, combined with 
its respect for laws, fairness, and opportunities. 
Another aspect that stands out is Mars square Neptune. This is a classic conflict between aggres-
sion and passivity, between the drive to compete and win versus a tendency to pull back and with-
draw. Mars is war, and Neptune represents peace. The nation has a classic conflict between its desire 
to defend itself and its allies, versus its wish for peace and to avoid war. 
82

--- PAGE 87 ---
Another planetary setup that stands out is the Moon-Pluto conjunction in Capricorn, in opposi -
tion to Mercury in Cancer. The Moon’s position is only in conjunction with Pluto in the July 2 chart 
and not the July 4th one. I think the Moon-Pluto conjunction in Capricorn is an important reflection 
of the nation’s deep emotional wound and guilt over its history of slavery and racism. It seems to 
be forever trying to heal this wound, but every attempt seems to lead it into more and more conflict, 
guilt, and reproach by others. This configuration was activated in 2021-2024 as Pluto transited over 
it. The opposition to Mercury also indicates the distrust of the mainstream media (MSM) during that 
time, when it had to withstand several insults of providing “fake news” or news that was unfairly 
biased in favor of one political party over another, and not based on objectivity. TV news became 
“opinions” on current events with a political twist, more than reporting of actual news. Many news 
organizations suffered a loss of readership as a result, and people started getting their news updates 
from social media outlets, which led to even false information and a rise in conspiracy theories. 
Yet, as stated before, and still this writer’s view, the founding chart given here is a powerful and 
enduring one. It supersedes all progressions or transits, although those two techniques do indicate 
periods of trials, tribulations, threats, and successes. The leadership and exceptionalism of the U.S. 
may be under attack, and it may indeed lose its status as the sole exceptional power on the planet. But 
it doesn’t mean it will fall outside of a leadership role. It just implies it has to share its formerly lofty 
status as the most powerful country in the world with others who are growing in stature more quickly. 
THE U.S. PROGRESSED CHART—WAR VERSUS DIPLOMACY 
We start our analysis of the United States in 2026 by analyzing the secondary progressions to the 
founding chart. The date chosen for the progressed chart is July 2, 2026, which would be the 250th 
birth date of the nation. 
There is one clear planetary configuration that shows up in this chart. July 2026 will find the 
nation undergoing a progressed new moon, with both the Sun and Moon conjoining at 19° Pisces. A 
progressed new moon represents a new beginning in the life of the nation, especially when it aspects 
other planets in the natal or progressed chart, which just happens to be the case here. That is, the pro-
gressed new moon will be in an exact square to Mars of the founding chart. Furthermore, it sets off 
the Mars-Neptune mutable square in the U.S. chart in a configuration known as a mutable T-square, 
with the focal planet being Mars at 19° Gemini in the nation’s 9th house of education, courts of law, 
religion, trade, and foreign affairs. 
The most important parts of this pattern involve these planets, for they represent the actions of the 
nation, or the choice of whether to act or not when faced with issues that have a Mars theme (anger, 
threats, war). With natal Mars in Gemini, chances are the nation will commence a multitude of many 
new activities. This is further highlighted by the fact that these planets are in mutable signs, which 
means the nation is multitasking—performing several operations or tasks at once. The challenge will 
be to stay focused on one matter at a time, not to get distracted by too many conflicting demands, and 
to do a complete and thorough job with each issue it takes on. The temptation is to spread itself so 
thin that nothing seems to be completed adequately enough to please everyone. Everything is hurried. 
Mistakes and misjudgments occur. 
83

--- PAGE 88 ---
Figure 10: USA Progressed chart for July 2, 2026. Progressions on the outer wheel. 
Inner wheel is the founding chart. 
To the majority of the population, it may seem like chaos, where everything starts, and then 
changes midstream. In the process, projects of importance seem to be quickly forgotten in favor of 
something new that suddenly demands attention. With the progressed New Moon in Pisces, the lack 
of clarity may be doubly apparent. With the New Moon in opposition to Neptune (the ruler of Pisces) 
for the next three years, the confusion as to what is really important and the risk of losing the plot 
may triple in intensity. 
As stated earlier, Mars in Gemini is the midpoint of this T-square. Mars represents the nation’s 
military might and the threat of war. The founding chart shows there is a natural conflict here between 
Mars and Neptune, or the urge for power and might and war readiness, versus the urge for peace and 
a tendency towards withdrawal or dependence on the resolution of conflict through diplomacy. Mars 
in Gemini can shout and threaten. But with Neptune afflicting Mars, it may experience difficulty or a 
84

--- PAGE 89 ---
lack of support from the populace to enter into conflicts with others. Hence the slogan, “Speak gently 
but carry a big stick.” So, from 2025 through 2029, the U.S. is torn between entering into conflicts 
with other nations (Mars in the 9th house), versus attempting diplomacy and avoidance of military 
action. The result can lead to great confusion about exactly what is the mission and the means to attain 
its purpose. In some instances, in 2025, for example, the U.S. was an aggressive force that entered into 
conflict and did very well, dropping bombs on Iran’s nuclear facilities and setting their nuclear ambi-
tions and threats to Israel back several years. They also showed Martian muscle in the Israeli–Gazan 
conflict, forcing Hamas to surrender and return hostages to Israel. These were great examples of Mars 
in action, displaying strength in order to achieve peace, which is the positive way these principles can 
be integrated. In these instances, the U.S. garnered respect and admiration throughout the world. 
In other cases, such as the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, the U.S. approach has taken a more Pisces-
Neptunian course. First, the U.S. would not support Ukraine in its war with Russia. Then it said it would, 
then backed off and decided it wanted to help resolve the conflict through diplomacy, in which neither 
nation was willing to give up anything. So, what is the criterion under which the U.S. decides to be the 
aggressor versus when it decides to be the peacemaker? Under what conditions will the U.S. defend its 
allies, and when not? No one knows. The progressed New Moon in Pisces is making a mutable T-square to 
the Mars-Neptune square in the U.S. founding chart, exhibiting this lack of consistency in policy involving 
international conflicts. But the New Moon in Pisces strongly suggests that it wants to find a peaceful path 
utilizing diplomacy. Yet that only works when all parties are sincerely interested, which, in this case, with 
Mars as the midpoint of this T-square, is clearly not happening between Russia and Ukraine. 
Another feature of this progressed New Moon in Pisces, forming a mutable T-square to the U.S. 
natal Mars-Neptune square, is that it continues to activate the mutable Mars-Neptune square of Iran’s 
chart over the next three years. The conflict with Iran is not likely to end with the June 2025 bomb -
ing of its nuclear sites. That conflict is probably just dormant for now and will come back again. The 
U.S. must be ready. 
It is also important to remember that the U.S. progressed Mars is retrograde. That started shortly 
after Barack Obama became president (2008-2009). It will continue through 2087. Astrologically, 
this progressed retrograde Mars poses a problem of readiness for the U.S. military, especially as it is 
in Libra, its detriment. The U.S. leadership will have to be very alert to avoid mistakes, miscalcula -
tions, and dangerous indecisiveness when clarity and firmness are needed for success. It also indi -
cates conducting war campaigns only partway, not seeing them through to needed completion. As a 
result, war successes may have to be entered into a second time with the same actors. The ongoing 
conflict with Iran may be an example of this. 
TRANSITS: WAR THREATS, REVENGE, LOSING ALLIES AND TRADING PARTNERS 
It isn’t clear if American exceptionalism, as it’ s known, is really dead. It’ s too early to say 
whether Trump’ s moves to reshape the global economy will result in a new world order. The 
U.S. Supreme Court is expected to weigh in on the constitutionality of some of the administra-
tion’ s tariffs. And countries the world over are forging new alliances that exclude or minimize 
U.S. involvement. 
—Elizabeth O’Brien, American Exceptionalism May Be Dying. How to Make the Best of 
It. www.barrons.com, September 5, 2025. 
The U.S. is in the midst of a war cycle, both externally and internally. 
85

--- PAGE 90 ---
In previous books, I noted that each time Uranus, Neptune, or Pluto ingressed into the signs 
they occupy in 2025-2026, the three most important wars in U.S. history occurred. In April 1777, 
the 248-year orbital cycle of Pluto entered Aquarius, just a few months after the American Revolu -
tionary War began. Pluto fully entered Aquarius again in November 2024, where it will remain until 
2043. On April 12, 1861, just one day before the 164-year orbital cycle of Neptune entered Aries, the 
U.S. Civil War commenced. Neptune next entered Aries on March 30, 2025. After retrograding back 
into Pisces, it will re-enter Aries on January 26, 2026, where it will remain until 2038. Uranus has 
an 84-year orbital cycle and had previously entered Gemini on August 7, 1941. Four months later, 
the U.S. entered World War II. It entered Gemini again on July 7, 2025. After retrograding back into 
Taurus, it will re-enter Gemini on April 26, 2026, and remain there through August 3, 2032. As we 
advance through 2026 and into 2027, Uranus, Neptune, and Pluto will all be in their first decan (10°) 
of these same signs, where they were posited during the most important wars in American history. 
This is clearly a war cycle for the U.S. Can it avoid a war this time? 
Figure 11: Transits on February 20, 2026 (Outer wheel) to the U.S. chart (Inner wheel) 
86

--- PAGE 91 ---
NATIONAL AND LOCAL SECURITY 
Almost every issue of importance confronting the United States today can be associated with 
the Aries V ortex, where the Saturn–Neptune conjunction falls on the U.S. descendant and squares 
its natal Venus (chart ruler) on the midheaven. It also pertains to the Uranus–Pluto trine in early air 
signs, which makes up the sides of the funnel, and whose midpoint also falls on 0° Aries with Saturn 
and Neptune. Additionally, transiting Uranus and Pluto make a grand trine to the early Libra rising in 
this newly rectified chart. 
Let us start with the issue of trust, an important factor in the status of America’s exceptionalism. 
Trust falls under the domain of Neptune. But Neptune is compromised via its conjunction with Sat -
urn, which is not trust, but rather skepticism, which can easily turn to distrust and even separation if 
one of the parties in a relationship feels that the agreement or precedents supporting the relationship 
are being changed without its approval and consent. Relationships are the key to this current chart 
because the Saturn–Neptune conjunction is on the cusp of the 7th house, which rules partnerships and 
allies. Furthermore, both Saturn and Neptune square the U.S. Venus in Cancer. Venus also rules one’s 
partnerships and allies, those who support the nation and have been loyal to it. 
All of this support and trust has been upended since March, when first Neptune, and then Sat -
urn, moved into Aries, forming these powerful aspects to the U.S. chart. The White House suddenly 
announced huge tariffs on nations that export its goods to the U.S. Aside from causing a mini-panic 
in financial markets in early April (Venus rules the stock market), this abrupt disruption of long-
standing precedence in trade and international relationships has led many of the U.S. allies to seek 
other nations to fill in the gap of lost trade relations with the U.S. It’s not like they completely stopped 
trading with the U.S., for developing new alliances and trading partners take time. But these changing 
trade relationships are underway as we enter 2026, for many nations no longer trust the U.S. to honor 
its precedents. They fear (Saturn) that abrupt, non-consensual changes can and will happen again, and 
in many cases, may be due to some act or statement on their part that personally offends the President. 
This is perhaps the leading reason why America is losing its status of exceptionalism in the eyes of 
the world. It takes a long time to build up trust. It takes only a moment to break it. Without trust, you 
do not have the foundation for a healthy relationship. America has now jeopardized its relationship 
with many of its historic allies. It will be interesting to see if it can recapture that trust before those 
other nations develop new trading alliances. 
The consequences of these heavy-handed unilateral trade decisions have also led the charge for 
the currencies of other multinational alliances (like BRICS) to compete with the U.S. Dollar as an 
acceptable standard world currency for trade. Again, this relates to the nation’s Venus being besieged 
by Saturn and Neptune. Venus represents a nation’s currency, and the U.S. Dollar has been falling in 
value as of January 2025. It has declined to a new 3-year low as of this writing. 
Despite these challenges indicated by Saturn and Neptune, the transits of Uranus and Pluto, 
making a grand trine with this revised U.S. Ascendant, hold much promise. The U.S. is still a world 
leader in technology and innovation. With Uranus transiting back to its natal sign of Gemini, this 
techno-renaissance is likely to continue. More discoveries and new applications with technology 
are forecasted throughout this decade, and especially in 2026. However, Uranus in Gemini has also 
corresponded to deadly wars for the U.S. in every past instance. Technology and innovation have led 
to economic booms, but in many cases, these discoveries and applications were brought about due 
to war entanglements. This might actually help the U.S. in its military campaigns, but there is still 
87

--- PAGE 92 ---
the issue of a progressed Mars retrograde, which points out the tendency to not end these conflicts 
completely, but rather just conduct a temporary “shock and awe” strike, followed by a break that lets 
the nation’s adversaries regroup to fight another day. 
The nation’s economy might continue to hold up and even improve somewhat while transiting 
Jupiter is in Cancer, where the U.S. natal Sun, Venus, and Jupiter are located. It has already passed 
those natal planets as of August 2025, which could mean the peak of the economy has passed. How-
ever, Jupiter will still conjoin Mercury from October 2025 through June 2026. During the early 
stretch of that time, Jupiter will also trine Saturn, from October 2025 to January 2026. This may be a 
secondary economic peak. 
New challenges begin to arise as Saturn advances past Neptune in Aries. It will move from its 
square to Venus to a waning square to the U.S. Jupiter and Sun for about one year, starting in March 
2026. This portends new struggles with the economy, world trade, and the leadership of the country 
(Sun), losing the support of its citizenry. The White House believes it will retain control of the House 
and Senate as it has worked hard to redraw voting districts in order to enhance its chances of gaining 
seats. But Saturn will square the nation’s Cancer planets, and Jupiter, leaving its Sun sign during next 
year’s election season, does not support that belief. With Neptune on the descendant, square natal 
Venus, a ploy to interrupt the normal election process cannot be ruled out. Accusations of cheating or 
stealing are likely to be made again. 
In conclusion, it appears the United States starts out the year on a strong footing, but not as 
strong as it was prior to August 2025. But as the first quarter of 2026 ends, it also appears that ten -
sions increase with regard to both the economy, trading partners, and the overall direction of the 
U.S. leadership. The U.S. mid-term elections of 2026 hold the potential of another bout of national 
anxiety, division, and allegations of fraud, stealing, and cheating. Such is the lot of Neptune and 
Saturn, prominent as transits in hard aspect to critical points in the U.S. founding chart. At the same 
time, the U.S. is on track to make major advancements in technology and space exploration. It’s not 
as if everything is in decline. Some matters are improving and doing quite well, especially in these 
areas. One other area of concern may be health matters. In this regard, it is not just the U.S., but many 
other nations of the world that need to be alert to the possibility of new contagions erupting under the 
Saturn–Neptune conjunction. 
References 
McCullough, David, 1776, Simon and Schuster, New York, NY , 2005 (page 135). 
88

--- PAGE 93 ---
THE U.S. PRESIDENT IN 2026: 
LEGENDARY HERO OR CORRUPT GRIFTER? 
Today marked an extraordinary inflection point in time for the Middle East as President Don-
ald Trump signed the historic Gaza Peace Deal alongside world leaders. President Trump’ s 
strategy of ‘peace through strength’ brokered a historic peace agreement that stands to bring to 
an end a conflict that has ravaged the Middle East and perpetuated the spread of terrorism… 
Their work, under the leadership of President Trump, represents the most significant peace 
agreement in the Middle East since the end of the Second World War. 
—Press release of RSC (Republican Study Committee), “President Trump’s Triumph for 
Peace in the Middle East,” October 13, 2025, rsc-pfluger.house.gov. 
“Speak softly but carry a big stick. You will go far.” If Roosevelt were alive today, he might 
caution our current government not to forget the “speak softly” part. As he defined it, it is nec-
essary to be respectful toward all people and scrupulously refrain from wronging them. While 
at the same time keeping ourselves in position to prevent wrong being done to us. 
—Brett Baier, “To Rescue the American Spirit: Teddy Roosevelt and the Birth of a Super-
power,” Mariner Books, 2025 
Writing about President Donald Trump is a challenge, no matter how objective one may try to 
be. If his accomplishments are noted in a positive light, far-left partisans will charge you with being a 
MAGA (Trump-supporting) extremist. If you point out his ill-advised decisions and potentially harm-
ful actions to the nation or the world, you are afflicted by TDS—Trump Derangement Syndrome— 
according to MAGA extremists. “Ill-advised decisions and actions” is probably an incorrect phrase, 
anyway, for the president has many advisors who try to give him good advice. However, he often acts 
without their input or consent. He creates many problems that did not exist and that only he can solve. 
True to his Gemini cosmic heritage, he plays the roles of villain and then hero. 
Thus, as challenging as it is to write this section of the book as someone without bias and subjec-
tivity, I will nevertheless attempt to do so. 
THE NATAL CHART 
According to published copies of his birth certificate, Donald Trump was born on June 14, 1946, 
at 10:54 AM, in Queens, NY . 
He was born under a powerful lunar eclipse with the Sun conjunct Uranus in Gemini and the Moon 
in Sagittarius. He has been called a genius and unorthodox, which are traits associated with the Sun and 
Uranus in Gemini. But he has also been called chaotic and a disruptor, which are also terms associated with 
this combination. The Moon in Sagittarius has a very large vision of what is possible and, with the Sun in 
opposition, can indicate unbridled confidence in himself and an unwavering demand of loyalty from oth-
ers to serve that vision, and even himself as a leader. He wishes complete freedom in whatever he does. 
He was also born with Mars conjunct the Ascendant in Leo. In fact, his late Leo rising is conjunct 
Regulus, the fixed star of “royalty and the height of power and wealth.” Is it any wonder that he is 
often accused of “acting like a king?” But with Mars there as well, he will oftentimes act impulsively, 
do what he wants, and not take the time or effort to follow any protocol or normal procedure. 
89

--- PAGE 94 ---
Figure 12: Donald J. Trump, June 14, 1946, 10:54 AM, Queens, NY 
In fact, there is nothing “normal” about Mars on the Leo Ascendant, and the ruler (the Sun) is 
conjunct Uranus. He is unique, different, and unconventional. However, this is not an arrangement that 
astrologers would consider “stable.” It is highly energetic and dominant (Mars rising in a fire sign), 
original (Uranus pronounced), and capable of great deeds. It is also capable of disruptions, chaos, and 
a lack of focus to complete any task that takes too much time before getting distracted and pivoting to 
another matter of new importance. Each task must be done quickly and immediately. There is a bent 
toward overconfidence and arrogance that fosters either unconditional loyalty or intense dislike. People 
tend to either love, worship, despise, or hate him. But very few are without a bias one way or the other. 
His legacy in life may end up being one of greatness, but it may also end up being described as 
divisive and polarizing at a time when the nation sought unity. 
90

--- PAGE 95 ---
SYNASTRY WITH THE U.S. CHART 
Comparing Donald Trump’s chart with that of the U.S. founding and progressed chart provides 
an insight that is important to the understanding of current times. 
Figure 13: Donald Trump’s chart in the inner circle, the U.S. founding chart is in the outer circle. 
In the prior chapter on the United States, it was pointed out that the major aspect in 2026 was the 
progressed New Moon forming a square aspect to the U.S. natal Mars. This would draw in Neptune 
as well, forming a mutable T-square through 2029. 
Note that Donald Trump’s natal Sun-Lunar North Node and Uranus are in a conjunction to Mars 
in the U.S. chart, as shown in the enclosed figure. His natal Moon and Lunar South Node are in oppo-
sition to the U.S. Mars. This is a powerful combination and describes the president’s role as Com -
mander in Chief. One could say this is his primary role, even destiny, as president of the U.S. His des-
tiny is closely aligned with that of the U.S. military. In this setup, he may serve well as Commander 
in Chief in times of military threats if he acts decisively. Or it could also mean that he is conflicted as 
91

--- PAGE 96 ---
to when to use force versus diplomacy, when to attack versus when to retreat. The tendency may be 
to attack fast and furious at first (Mars), and then to offer an olive branch just as quickly as the strike 
ends (Neptune). With his Sun-Uranus in Gemini in conjunction with the nation’s Mars, he may not 
be consistent or predictable in how he reacts to military threats. That could prove to be an advantage 
in war that leads to victory, and this chart leans towards victories as the combinations just outlined 
in Gemini also make a favorable sextile to his natal Mars in Leo on the fixed star Regulus. His Sun-
Uranus conjunction (on the U.S. Mars) also trines natal Jupiter in Libra. These same signatures also 
point to a dilemma between the urge to fight and win (Mars in Leo rising), versus the urge for diplo-
macy, agreement, and peace (Jupiter in Libra, trine the natal Sun). Is his destiny to be a war hero or a 
peacemaker? It appears it can be both. 
President Trump’s Sun-Uranus on the U.S. Mars also relates to his use of the military for untra-
ditional roles beyond defending against enemies outside the borders. He has called up the military to 
help defend the borders against illegal immigration, as well as deploying troops into major cities to 
contain violence, even against the wishes of the leaders of those states. However, he has been accused 
of creating false narratives of uncontrolled urban violence to justify his unpopular deployment of the 
military in response to protests and violent civilian unrest. 
This brings into play the role of Neptune, where one’s claims may either be misunderstood or 
intentionally deceptive and manipulative. It begs the question: What is the real purpose of using the 
military against U.S. citizens? Is it to protect innocent people from domestic terrorism, as the admin-
istration claims? Or is there some other reason, such as setting the stage for the declaration of martial 
law? With Neptune, silence can be golden. Or it can be a way to avoid disclosing the truth that others 
seek in order to make an informed decision. With Neptune, one may never really know the truth, the 
whole truth, and nothing but the truth. 
Thus, what is most interesting is that the progressed New Moon of the U.S. is at 19° Pisces (see 
chart in the previous chapter), in T-square to the U.S. Mars–Neptune square, as well as to Trump’s 
own Sun–Lunar North Node–Uranus conjunction in Gemini. This is a critical time for the U.S. mili-
tary amidst threats both from within and outside the U.S., and President Trump is called upon to make 
his legacy over this threat of international conflict, and/or civil war within, that threatens the nation 
at this unique point in its history. This is his time, for better or worse. This is the turning point of the 
U.S. as well, tied to President Trump through the nation’s own Mars–Neptune square. The destiny 
and security of the nation and its president are now intertwined. 
PROGRESSIONS 
US President Donald Trump has not ruled out the possibility of seeking a third term for the 
White House, saying he would “love to do it”. Last week, former Trump strategist Steve Ban -
non said that a “plan” was in place to secure the 79-year-old president another term. 
—Bernd Debusmann Jr, “Trump Does Not Rule Out Seeking Third Term,” BBC News 
(
www.bbc.com), October 27, 2025. 
President Trump has a very active progressed chart in 2026, much more active than the transits to 
his natal chart. First of all, his progressed Sun will be located at 9° Virgo in his first house. Being in 
the first house is fine for a leader, but it has passed its last major aspect to a natal planet for the next 
ten years, which suggests his influence may start to wane as a world leader. Not that it ends, but his 
power may peak by the end of 2026. 
92

--- PAGE 97 ---
Yet he has the fortuitous conjunction between progressed Venus and Jupiter in Libra, which is 
the sign Venus has rulership over. Those who surround him love him. It doesn’t get much better than 
this for one’s sense of being approved. But this aspect also squares his natal Venus, which conjuncts 
his natal Saturn, a combination that may make him feel he never receives enough love or approval 
from others. Jupiter’s presence in Libra on progressed Venus reflects “too much.” Saturn’s presence 
natally with Venus suggests “never enough.” The challenge is to define boundaries that others agree 
with and not be over- or under-influenced by the desires of others to affect his decision-making on the 
basis of being “approved.” He may be a powerful deal maker, but with Venus highlighted, he is also 
vulnerable to manipulation by others via his own need to be approved by them. With Venus square 
Venus, and Jupiter also involved, his current world becomes a game of who plays whom? An example 
would be Vladimir Putin, a Libra native ruled by Venus, who Trump acknowledged in mid-2025 was 
“playing him,” or “tapping him along,” by not taking any steps to attain peace with Ukraine as Trump 
had unsuccessfully tried to negotiate. 
Figure 14: Donald Trump’s progressions for 2026 (outer wheel) to his natal chart 
(inner wheel), as of January 1, 2026. 
93

--- PAGE 98 ---
Next, we note that Trump’s progressed Ascendant in 2026 will be at 3° Scorpio, in a square 
aspect to his progressed Saturn. This can represent a time of frustration and resistance (Saturn) to do 
what he wants to do (progressed Ascendant). In Scorpio, his tendency to act abruptly and without 
approval can cause serious backlash, an impediment to his desire to get everyone on the same page. 
Threats may be made, personally and politically, to harm the careers of those he battles with. There 
is an intense effort to block him. This is amplified by the progressed midheaven (MC) in Leo (the 
leader, or king), conjunct his natal and progressed Pluto, which rules Scorpio. The MC is his status 
in the world, his career, and how the world views him. In this case, the involvement of Pluto may 
indicate that others view him as coercive, a threat, and in response, become coercive and a threat to 
him. On top of that, his progressed Moon is still in Scorpio until the summer, forming a square to his 
natal Mars and Ascendant, and opposition to transiting Uranus. 
It appears that 2026 will be very intense, even by his own standards. It may turn out to be a year of 
many personal threats to him and by him. His inner circle is mostly fine and supportive, with Venus and 
Jupiter conjunct in Libra. But a stampede of resistance from others lies in his path, embodied by Pluto. 
He will need to be mindful of his personal safety and well-being (health), especially in the first 
half of the year. There is something that has to change, be eliminated, reformed, from his current 
direction, for Pluto requires surrender on some level, which is not part of his business model. Yet no 
one escapes unscathed under powerful Pluto signatures. Is it his health, or just the nature of the politi-
cal battleground he is fighting on? Is it a threat from within the country, or bad actors outside who 
wish to inflict harm on the U.S. and to him personally? This is part of Scorpio and Pluto’s secretive 
behind-the-scenes nature, where plots brew out of sight. 
Another progressed aspect to note is Mercury straddling the conjunction between his natal Mars 
and Ascendant. He may be more temperamental and verbally assertive (aggressive) than usual to oth-
ers. In his former life with “The Apprentice” TV show, he used to enjoy telling people, “You’re fired!” 
In his role as president, he is apt to continue firing people, dismissing them from any role in his admin-
istration if they oppose him. His words can sting. At the same time, this implies he will be a very active 
deal maker and negotiator through 2026 and 2027. He doesn’t stop. It is like he is in a hurry. 
TRANSITS 
What we have seen this year is new levels of graft and grift. We seem to be moving rapidly 
toward a justice system in which the president essentially gets to decide who should be in 
prison. If you’re a political enemy, we’ll come up with a crime to fit your punishment. If you’re 
a friend, we will annul your crimes. 
—Gerard Baker, “Trump Accelerates Our Decline Into Moral Relativism,” Wall Street 
Journal, October 28, 2025. 
There are three major transits that stand out in President Trump’s progressed chart this year. The 
first is the final passage of Uranus square his natal Ascendant, which began in late June 2025 and 
ends April 24, 2026. As stated last year concerning this transit, “As Uranus is not considered a sign 
of stability and comfort, and given that Mr. Trump seems at his best in situations of chaos, he will 
have plenty of opportunities to deal with chaotic situations, many of which will likely be of his own 
making. In the words of Jerry Lee Lewis, there’ s ‘gonna be a whole lot of shakin’ goin’ on.’” That is 
precisely what has been unfolding during the first year of his second term in office. There have been 
no breaks from the plentitude of executive actions and presidential decisions. And when one of these 
94

--- PAGE 99 ---
actions is met with resistance, another is set in motion, and the attention suddenly shifts from one 
subject to another. There are no breaks. As a result, much is accomplished, but nothing comes without 
opposition. It has been a year of peaks and valleys for both the president and the population. That’s 
not going to change in the first half of 2026. 
The next major transit unfolding will be Saturn forming a cardinal T-square to the President’s 
natal Mercury-Neptune square. This is interesting because the only aspect of the President’s natal 
Mercury (mental processes, style of communication) is the square to Neptune. Mercury has to do 
with facts and logic, Neptune with abstracts, even imaginings. They work well together for some -
one engaged in sales, creative writing, and fantasy, but they do not work well in expressing facts to 
those who see reality differently. In fact, this combination has a unique way of reinterpreting events, 
such as history, to justify their current behavior or decision-making. An example would be when he 
abruptly cut off trade talks with Canada after the head of Ontario’s provincial government ran an ad 
quoting Ronald Reagan’s speech on the dangers of tariffs. Trump claimed this ad was fake, that Rea-
gan was really a supporter of tariffs. It turns out that the president was incorrect. 
The president’s critics often accuse him of ethical missteps, corruption, lying, or projecting blame 
onto others, which they assert is a result of his own actions or thoughts. This is a classical Mercury-
Neptune experience. But now comes Saturn to make a T-square to this Mercury-Neptune dynamic. 
This suggests difficulty in April 2026 +/- 1 month over something he did or said. It would be wise of 
him to make sure his behavior is ethical, facts are correct, and to avoid attempts to create mislead -
ing narratives (supposedly “moral justifications”) that will come back to haunt him around this time. 
Given that Mercury is the ruler of his Sun sign, and thus connected to one’s vitality, nervous system, 
and respiratory tract, this would be a good time for him to also take a break and rest. 
The third major transit to his chart in 2026 is the Lunar North Node crossing his Descendant. This 
takes place on August 20, 2026, but has an orb of influence up to nine months on either side. This 
is an aspect of a major transition. It is also an aspect that I consider one of the most karmic periods 
in one’s life, from a metaphysical point of view. This is a time when actions of the past come home 
to roost, especially concerning relationships of importance in one’s life, past and future. New ones 
begin, old ones may end. The Lunar North Node now heads below the horizon, which is a time that 
tests one’s faith—faith in oneself, faith in a higher force. It is a time of reflection. Perhaps he is focus-
ing on his legacy over the next 4.5 years as the Lunar North Node heads towards the nadir of the chart 
(IC). The more one tries to make things happen in the world, the more one’s life experiences suggest 
he needs to work on the inner plane, personality, and aspects within himself. Periods of self-reflection 
begin to increase. 
95

--- PAGE 100 ---
Figure 15: Transits of Election Day, November 3, 2026 (outer wheel) to Donald Trump’s 
natal chart (inner wheel). Note Saturn retrograde square his natal Mercury, and the Lunar 
North Node falling below the Descendant. 
It doesn’t mean there will not be successes, especially as Saturn continues to move towards the 
top of his chart, which is a sign of success, but also increasing demands on his time and energy. He 
is building a legacy, and he is well aware of this. But the trend is changing, and conflicts between 
the world within and the world outside are growing. It is of interest to note that this will be in effect 
during the midterm elections, when the president (as of now) is very confident that he will score 
an unusual midterm victory and maintain control of the House and Senate. The transit of the Lunar 
South Node over the Ascendant, and the Lunar North Node crossing the boundary that separates the 
region above the horizon (outer world) from the region below (inner world), indicates that his inter -
est in accruing more and more power in the world may be on the decline. Perhaps this is because he 
is aware he is a lame duck? Perhaps it is because he wants to focus more on his legacy after his term 
ends? This would also fit with the transits to the U.S. chart. The two are intertwined. But unless he is 
96

--- PAGE 101 ---
willing to embrace this new 18-year cycle, this may not be an easy transition for someone like him, 
with Mars rising in Leo, to enter into. 
The one aspect that indicates he may experience success with the mid-term elections is transiting 
Jupiter over his Mars-Ascendant, November 30–December 25. Is that close enough to the election 
to have an effect? If so, Jupiter crossing the Ascendant is usually a time for celebration and victory. 
However, Jupiter moves fast and may not be related to the election. It could indicate some other 
success in his life at the end of the year. Additionally, there is another cosmic problem. Saturn will 
retrograde back into a square to his natal Mercury, November 8, 2026, through January 14, 2027. 
Saturn is stronger than Jupiter. Saturn is usually not in the mood to celebrate, but in a hard aspect with 
Mercury, it may be concerned about the future. Saturn might indicate resignations from his cabinet 
after the mid-term elections. 
How will he handle it? Will he accept his leadership, which is soon coming to an end? Or will 
he try to find some way to hold onto power by revising (somehow) the Twenty-Second Amendment, 
to let him serve additional terms? This is a real battle within himself. I don’t think he knows until 
the very end. Transiting Saturn rising up the chart indicates he may seek another term in spite of the 
fact that it is not allowed in the Constitution as it now stands. But the Lunar North Node entering the 
lower part of his chart suggests he also sees value in winding down and not complicating his legacy 
by forcing the Constitution to change, and the negative reactions that may cause. 
97

--- PAGE 102 ---
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL A VERAGE (DJIA) IN 2026 
by Raymond Merriman 
As the saying goes, don’t mistake a bull market for brains… Remember, no one rings a bell at 
the top or bottom of the market, but there are faint sounds. 
—Andy Kessler, “The ‘Don’t Worry, Be Happy’ Market,” The Wall Street Journal, 
November 3, 2025. 
Cycle Start/Progress Next Due 
72 year March 2009, 17 years 2082–2086 
36 year March 2009, 17 years 2039–2051 
18 year March 2009, 17 years 2024–2030 
9 year March 2020, 6 years 2027–2031 
6 year October 2022, 4 years 2027–2030 
Table of long-term cycles in DJIA: The left column contains long-term DJIA cycles. 
The second column identifies when the current cycle began and how far along it is as we enter 2026. 
The third column identifies when it is next due. 
INTRODUCTION 
The U.S. stock market has been on a tear for the past 17 years, following its 72-year cycle low of 
March 6–9, 2009, at the height of the Great Recession, when the DJIA had dropped 54.4% from its 
then all-time high made just 17 months earlier, in October 2007. The low in March 2009 was 6470 in 
the DJIA. By the end of October 2025 (as this is being written), it was trading at a new all-time high 
of 48,040, a gain of over 742% in 16.5 years, which isn’t bad. It demonstrates how wealth is built in 
the stock market via knowledge of investing and cycle studies during long-term cycle troughs. 
Along the way, however, there have been seven cases of 16% or greater declines in the DJIA, 
with the steepest being the 37% one-month decline from February 2020 to March 2020, during the 
outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic. That is a lot of steep sell-offs in just 18 years (2007–2025). 
They ranged in intervals of 1–4 years from one another as follows: 
1. March 2009 54.4% decline from high of October 2007 
2. October 2011 (31 mo) 19.2% decline from high of May 2011 
3. August 2015 (46 mo) 16.2% decline from high of May 2015 
4. December 2018 (40 mo) 19.4% decline from the high of October 2018 
5. March 2020 (15 mo) 37.1% decline from high of February 2020 
6. October 2022 (31 mo) 22.4% decline from high of January 2022 
7. April 2025 (30 mo) 18.8% decline from high of December 2024 
98

--- PAGE 103 ---
Of the seven completed cases of 16% or greater declines since the then all-time high of October 
2007, six have lasted 30–46 months. The outlier was 2020’s pandemic low at only a 15-month inter-
val. That was indeed an outlier in many ways. If the next 16+% decline happens in the 30–46 month 
interval, it would occur from October 2027 to February 2029. As will be demonstrated shortly, that 
falls within the time band of several cycles, including the important 18-year cycle trough, a genera -
tional low that is due 2022–2030. 
Yet, when one looks at the long-term history of the DJIA (as illustrated in The Ultimate Book on 
Stock Market Timing, Volume 1: Cycles and Patterns in the Indexes 
1), the picture is concerning, because 
1) the low to a high in the 18-year cycle has lasted 6–20 years in all 12 completed cases to date, and 2) 
in 11 of those 12 cases, the rally lasted 9–20 years. As 2026 begins, it will mark the 17th year that this 
cycle has been overall bullish, which makes it in the mature stage of its 18-year cycle. The peak of the 
18-year cycle is due at any time now, followed by the low, which is also due any time by 2030. 
Historically, though, the crest has been 17 years or greater in three of those 12 cases, for only a 
25% frequency. However, all three cases of these short but steep declines have occurred within the 
four cases since the Great Depression of 1932, which was the prior 72-year cycle. This means bull 
markets have lasted 17–20 years in 75% of the four most recent cases. This will be the 4th time in 
the last five cases that it has lasted at least 17 years, and three of the prior four bull runs have lasted 
18–20 years. The cycle top is due. 
It’s as if you know you are this close, but also that far away, from an important top, after which 
the stock market historically falls at least 37%. The frequency of a 37% or greater decline happening 
by 2030 is about 83% (10 of 12 cases). And in eight of those cases, the decline was between 37.5 and 
63.6%. Only once was the decline less than 30% (in 1953). And only twice was it greater than 63.6%. 
Since this next 18-year cycle low is not expected to be part of a greater cycle, the range of 
37.5–63.6% is the projected drop off from the current all-time high that is due. If it falls more than 
63.6%, or even more than the 54.4% decline into the long-term cycle low of March 2009, then an 
even longer-term 90-year cycle must be considered. That degree of decline has only occurred twice in 
99

--- PAGE 104 ---
U.S. stocks: into the lows of 1842 and 1932. If the 90-year cycle is to occur a third time, it would be 
due within 15 years of 2022, and probably within 10 years of 2022 (by 2032), based on the long-term 
Saturn–Uranus conjunction taking place on June 28, 2032. Our studies have shown that the greatest 
percentage of long-term stock market cycles have occurred near a Saturn–Uranus conjunction or 
opposition than any other planetary pair cycle.
1 
The takeaway from this introduction is that the DJIA is due to top out any time before 2029, 
and most likely between 2026 and 2029. However, there is just as strong a probability that the 
18-year cycle low will happen October 2027–January 2029, and the crest would happen before 
then. The challenge is: how much before then? Since 1932, there have been no bear markets at the 
end of the 18-year cycle that lasted more than two years. Two of them lasted less than one year. 
The shortest on record was the 40% decline in just two months from August to October 1987. It is 
this author’s opinion that under President Donald Trump, we will see another instance of a steep 
and brief bear market lasting less than two years, and probably less than one year. Nevertheless, a 
decline of 37–63% will offer a generational opportunity to build wealth via the stock market for 
those who are willing to be patient for 9–20 years afterwards, which could yield a return between 
300% and 800%.
2 
Now, let’s see if we can add more pieces of the current stock market puzzle in the quest to narrow 
the time band for both the crest and the trough. For if we can, that guidance can mean the difference 
between a very healthy and profitable investment on the horizon versus one that could be meager if 
entering at the wrong time (too early or too late) or one that could even spell a severe loss if not care-
ful and aware of the cycle messages ahead. 
CYCLES: LONG-TERM 
We begin this section with a review of long-term cycles (low to low) in the DJIA. 
The 18-Year Cycle: The last 18-, 36-, and 72-year cycles started with the low of March 6–9, 2009. 
Our focus will be on the 18-year cycle, as that is the longest cycle currently coming due, from 2024 to 
2030. Since it is the first phase of longer cycles, it is not expected to be as steep a decline as happened 
into the low of March 2009, which was 54.4% in the DJIA. However, as noted earlier, over 80% of 
18-year cycles have declined 37–63%, so this remains our price target for this important cycle. 
Time-wise, the crest is due any time before the end of 2029. The low will follow and is due at 
any time before the end of 2030. 
Historically, the price appreciation from the start of the 18-year cycle to its crest has been 122– 
778%. However, since 1914, it has gained 320–778%. Measured from the start of the current cycle 
at 6470, the upside price target for the crest is 27,174–56,807. As of this writing, the DJIA is in the 
upper part of this range, nearing 50,000. Thus, the time and price criteria for the 18-year cycle crest 
are being met. The final high is due at any time. 
The 9-Year Cycle: All cycles break down into divisions of 2 and 3, and sometimes both. The half-
cycle (9-year cycle) to the 18-year cycle has a range of 7.5–10.5 years. The 9-year half-cycle time band 
has coincided with a prominent trough in 10 of the 12 cases to date in the 18-year cycle, with some 
slight distortions. The March 2020 pandemic low, for instance, was exactly 11 years following the start 
of the 18-year cycle, and although slightly outside of our normal range, it will be considered a 9-year 
half-cycle. If correct, the second 9-year half-cycle is next due September 2027–September 2030. 
100

--- PAGE 105 ---
Price-wise, in all but two of these cases, the crest of the second half of the 18-year cycle was 
considerably higher than the crest of the first half. That is the case again now. 
The 6-Year Cycle: The six-year cycle is a 1/3 division of the 18-year cycle. It has a normal range 
of 5–7 years, but can expand to eight years in the second or third phase. In all 12 cases of the 18-year 
cycle, there has been a 5–7-year cycle low in the first phase. However, the current 18-year cycle 
is now in its third phase. The first phase was a double bottom in August 2015 and February 2016, 
which was 6–7 years following the start of the cycle in March 2009. The second phase was the low 
on October 13, 2022, again 6–7 years after the first phase trough. Allowing a range of 5–8 years, the 
final phase will be due 2027–2030. 
The measured price targets for the crest of this third 6-year cycle phase are 47,500 +/– 4842 
and 50,244 +/– 4115. The overlap is 46,128–52,342. Once completed, we will look for a decline of 
37–63%. We would also look for prices to fall to or below the 108-month moving average shown on 
the monthly chart. 
CYCLES: INTERMEDIATE-TERM 
Cycle Start/Progress Next Due 
46-month (4-year) 
36-month (3-year) 
23-month (2-year) 
50-week (1-year) 
April 2025, 8 months 
April 2025, 8 months 
April 2025, 8 months 
April 2025, 8 months 
April 2028–December 2029 
October 2027–October 2028 
November 2026–July 2027 
January–June 2026 
Within the longer-term 9- and 6-year cycles, the DJIA also subdivides into two or three phases. 
The current 9-year cycle has been exhibiting three 3-year phases. The 6-year cycle can also be sub -
divided into two 3-year phases or three 2-year sub-cycles. Both share in common a 3-year cycle. 
This often happens with “combination cycles,” and this 18-year cycle is a combination of 9-year 
and 6-year cycle phases. They share in common a 3-year cycle with a range of 30–42 months, which 
MMAAnalyst Ulric Aspegrén calls a “keystone cycle,” which means it is a subdivision of two in one 
cycle branch and a subdivision of three in another. 
It is for this reason that we will focus on the 3-year cycle and not the 4-year (or even 4.5-year) 
cycles of our longer-term studies. Besides, the three-year cycle has been more reliable than the 4-year 
cycle over the past 50 years. 
Following the 9-year cycle low of March 2020, the DJIA has exhibited 3-year cycle lows in Octo-
ber 2022 (31 months) and April 2025 (30 months). The April 2025 low was the second of three 3-year 
phases to the 9-year cycle. It was also the first of two 3-year cycles troughs that make up the 6-year 
cycle that began in October 2022. Thus, the next 3-year cycle low is on schedule to complete not only 
the 9- and 6-year cycles, but the entire 18-year cycle. If we measure 30–42 months following the low 
of April 7, 2025, we get an ideal time band for all four cycles (18-, 9-, 6-, and 3-year) due between 
October 2027 and October 2028. However, we have to be careful because when longer-term cycles 
are due, the shorter-term cycles (phases) within them can distort (contract or expand) beyond their 
normal time bands. 
101

--- PAGE 106 ---
I began this chapter with the study of the seven declines of 16% or greater since the 72-year cycle 
crest of October 2007. To repeat, “Of the seven complete cases of 16% or greater declines since the 
then all-time high of October 2007, six have lasted 30–46 months. If the next 16+% decline happens 
in the 30–46 month interval, it would occur October 2027–February 2029.” It overlaps nicely with 
the 18-, 9-, 6-, and 3-year cycles. 
Our formal studies on price gains and losses in The Ultimate Book on Stock Market Timing, Vol-
ume 1: Cycles and Patterns in the Indexes
1 were conducted on 4–year cycles. However, since Table 2 
showed a 4-year cycle low that also began April 7, 2025, and its next low is also due during the 2028 
+/– 1 year time band, we can apply those studies to the current market and calculate a price target 
for the crest of all these cycles. First of all, these studies show that the vast majority of rallies from 
the low to the high of a 4-year cycle last 12–49 months with a price appreciation of 70–189%. This 
would mean that the crest will 1) likely occur after March 2026 and 2) could soar to 62,240–105,800. 
However, there is a caveat. This is the last 3-year cycle phase of 6- and 9-year cycles, which 
are in their last phase of the greater 18-year cycle. The percentage of appreciation in the last 4-year 
cycle phases of an 18-year cycle, in our formal studies, was not so great. It ranged from a gain of 
only 29% to 83% in six of the seven cases since 1893. That would yield an upside price target of only 
47,225–67,000. This is interesting because it overlaps with our measured upside price calculation of 
the 9-year cycle at 49,400–57,750 and the 6-year cycle at 51,609–56,481. Earlier, we calculated that 
the 18-year cycle crest would rise to 27,174–56,807, and the six-year cycle to 46,128–52,342. It may 
be too much to expect, but all four of these price calculations overlap 51,609–52,342. 
The final intermediate-term cycle we consider is the 50-week type, with a normal range of 34–67 
weeks. Usually, there will be three of these phases within a 3-year cycle. April 7, 2025, began the first 
50-week (and 3-year) cycle. It is due to bottom with 16.5 weeks of March 27, 2026, or December 1, 
2025–July 17, 2026. But this will only be the first of three 50-week cycles before the final 3-, 6-, 9-, 
and 18-year cycles come due. In fact, there could even be more or fewer than three 50-week phases 
here since this is the last stage of so many greater cycles converging, which is when distortions most 
often occur. The timing is never easy when very long-term generational bottoms unfold. Investors 
need to develop a buy-in plan whenever the DJIA falls more than 35% off its all-time high, which 
could begin as early as 2026. 
For now, our immediate trading plan calls for a buying opportunity within 16 weeks of March 27, 
2026, and with a decline of at least 8%. Yet, if the next 50-week cycle rally only makes a double top 
to the high of this current 50-week cycle, or stalls within an upside price target range given above, 
investors must be prepared for a powerful reversal to begin. 
GEOCOSMIC CYCLES 
Our basic rule is that long-term cycle crests and troughs tend to unfold when major aspects 
involving long-term planetary pair cycles involving Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, or Pluto are in effect. 
We also consider the sign position of the Lunar North Node. 
We have two long-term planetary pair cycles in effect now. First and foremost is the 36-year syn-
odic (conjunction) cycle of Saturn and Neptune, which came within 13’ of a degree of exactness in 
July 2025 and will be exact on February 20, 2026. Our studies reported in The Ultimate Book on Stock 
Market Timing Volume 2: Geocosmic Correlations to Investment Cycles
2 showed that long-term stock 
102

--- PAGE 107 ---
market cycles tended to top out within 11 months of the beginning through the end of this aspect, with 
all but one in 8 months or less. This means the long-term cycle crest could happen by October 2026. 
The second long-term planetary aspect is Uranus trine Pluto, which will transpire five times 
between July 2026 and May 2028. It was close enough in the middle of 2025 to be considered already 
underway (less than a degree from an exact trine). There are only three cases of trines between these 
two planets in the history of the DJIA. Two of them were 9-year cycle troughs. With an orb of 10 
months on either side of the first or last passage, this fits well in a broad time band for the 18-year 
cycle as described previously. However, this is too wide a time band to be of any practical use. The 
Saturn–Neptune conjunction is more useful for identifying a possible 18-year cycle crest. 
Both Saturn and Neptune will make sextiles to Uranus and Pluto in 2025–2026. This is a favor -
able combination that could also help identify a long-term cycle crest whose time band is now in 
effect. Saturn makes three sextiles from April 4, 2025, to March 28, 2026. Neptune will sextile Ura-
nus and Pluto from August 28, 2025, through June 6, 2027. The overlap of August 2025 through 
March 2026 stands out for an important reversal. It will likely be at least a 50-week cycle crest, but 
could also exhibit the first 50-week cycle trough. 
There is also a very significant cosmic arrangement taking place July 20–21, 2026, as mentioned 
in our brief note to traders at the beginning of this year’s book. This is when Jupiter will trine Nep -
tune, oppose Pluto, and be in sextile to Uranus. Within six months, and usually only two, the Jupiter– 
Neptune trine has a strong correlation to at least a 50-week cycle trough. The Jupiter sextile Uranus 
aspect is also similar to a propensity to identify a 50-week or greater cycle low within 4 months. 
However, the Jupiter/Pluto opposition is most important. It can be either an intermediate (or longer 
term) cycle low or high, or both, within six months. If it is a high, it takes place within only 4 months, 
and a powerful decline follows. This fits well with our outlook of the 18-year cycle crest unfolding in 
2026, and ideally within four months of July 2026. 
The Jupiter–Saturn Cycle 
Throughout history, intermediate or long–term cycle highs and lows in the U.S. stock market 
have related to the 20-year Jupiter–Saturn cycle as follows: 
During the conjunction, stock markets tend to make highs. 
1–3 years later, near the first 1/8 phase (waxing semi-square) of the 20-year cycle, the U.S. 
stock market completes an intermediate-term cycle low. There is usually an international military war 
breaking out then as well. 
• The stock market tends to rally and form an important crest 3–6 years after the conjunction. 
• The stock market tends to suffer a serious decline, even a crash, 7–9 years after the conjunction. 
The Jupiter–Saturn conjunction occurred on December 20, 2020, and there indeed was a military 
crisis as the six-year stock market cycle trough occurred in October 2022 (1–3 years after the con -
junction). The market was then due to rally 3–6 years after that low, which brings us to 2023–2026, 
and indeed the market has rallied into this time band. The next step involves a serious decline, per -
haps a crash, into an important long-term cycle low due in 2027–2029. Once again, this aligns with 
the labeling of the long-term cycles according to the “Cycles Progress Table” given earlier. Our 
expectation is for the DJIA to lose 37–63% of its value from the high to the low during this period. 
103

--- PAGE 108 ---
The Jupiter Sign Correlation 
Jupiter will transit the sign of Leo from June 30, 2026, through July 26, 2027. A filtered wave of 
DJIA prices over the past 100+ years shows this to be a planet-sign combination with a strong ten -
dency for significant lows. Sometimes these declines last into the next sign of Virgo before the final 
low is completed. 
The Lunar North Node Stock Market Cycle 
The transits of the Moon’s North Node through the signs also show a correlation to long-term cycle 
crests and troughs in the DJIA. Long-term cycle lows happen most frequently when the Moon’s North 
Node transits between 1° Aries and 10° Sagittarius. This will be in effect from December 2024 to October 
2030. However, these studies also show the greatest concentration of lows was when the Moon’s North 
Node transited between 18° Pisces and 29° Capricorn. This condition will be present from August 2025 
to April 2028. Note that this overlaps with our projection of the next 18-year cycle (2027–2029). 
November 2026 through April 2027 stands out because Jupiter will be in Leo, in opposition to the 
Lunar North Node in Aquarius. Both correlate to long-term cycle lows in the DJIA. The hard opposition 
between these two might time this low, or at least a significant leg down to the final 18-year cycle low. 
Figure 16: Moon’s Nodes through the signs and their correspondence to the U.S. stock market. Long-
term cycle lows in the U.S. stock market happen mostly between 1° Aries and 10° Sagittarius, with the 
greatest concentration between 18° Pisces and 29° Capricorn (shown in the shaded area marked “low”). 
104

--- PAGE 109 ---
THE U.S. POLITICAL CYCLE 
The possibility of new all-time highs in 2025–2026, followed by a very sharp decline into 2027– 
2029, is also shown by the correlation of stock market crashes to the party in office, as described in 
the last two years’ Forecast books. 
In the past 120 years, all but one major stock market “crash” has happened under a Republican 
president. And the one that happened under a Democratic presidency in 1966 was the least severe of 
all (26.5%). At the same time, all-time highs were achieved under every Republican president since 
1900. However, that has not been the case under three Democratic presidents. 
This study suggests that there will be both a new all-time high and a stock market “crash,” 
defined as a loss of 29% or greater before January 2029. A Republican has been elected as of Novem-
ber 5, 2024, and his term will (presumably) last until January 2029. 
The stock market has already fulfilled the first part of this correlation as it is making a new all-
time high. Now we see if it will fulfill the latter part of this study with a decline of at least 29% before 
January 2029. 
Year of Crash President Decline of DJIA 
1906 Roosevelt – R lost 48% 
1910 Taft – R lost 29% 
1932 Hoover – R lost 86% 
1966 Johnson – D lost 26%* 
1974 Nixon – R lost 46% 
1987 Reagan – R lost 40% 
2002 Bush Jr – R lost 38% 
2008–9 Bush Jr – R lost 54% 
2020 Trump – R lost 38% 
Table: “R” represents Republican. “D” represents Democrat. * indicates the only decline less 
than 29%, and the only decline shown here that occurred during a Democrat presidency. 
It may be argued that the 50% decline of 1938 also happened under a Democrat president 
(Franklin Roosevelt). However, this was not the “crash” related to that time. It was a second-
ary correction to the crash of 1929–1933 that occurred under Republican Herbert Hoover. 
There was no new all–time high prior to the decline of 1938. 
STOCK SECTORS 
Jupiter is in Cancer from June 9, 2025, through June 30, 2026. This will highlight real estate, 
home building, remodeling, weddings, domestic appliances, furniture, restaurants, foods, agricultural 
products, dairy, water supplies, hotels and resorts, and businesses that cater to family activities and 
family planning. Strangely enough, the real estate market began struggling shortly after this transit 
began. It looks like it topped out with Jupiter in early Cancer, and it may bottom in 2027–2028 along 
with the stock market. Jupiter enters Leo from June 30, 2026, through July 26, 2027. This redirects 
attention to companies that cater to parties, social activities, huge events, sports, gambling, risk-
taking, and children. 
105

--- PAGE 110 ---
Saturn tends to depress stocks and coincides with cyclical lows in the sectors ruling the sign it 
is in. Saturn is in Pisces from September 1, 2025, to February 14, 2026. But then it finally settles in 
Aries from February 14, 2026, through April 2028. The sign of Aries implies price pressure or lack 
of supplies in the field of military equipment and weapons, defense, sports, athletic equipment and 
apparel, guns, and ammunition. 
However, the ingress of Uranus into Gemini is likely to have a more profound effect on the stock 
market. It entered Gemini first on July 7, 2025. And after a brief return to Taurus, from November 
8, 2025 through April 26, 2026, Uranus will fully re-enter Gemini through August 3, 2032. This is 
a boom-bust period for all sectors related to Gemini. That is, these sectors will often enter a boom 
period for at least 2–5 years during which prices explode to new all-time highs, often appreciating 
4-fold or more from their lows of 2025–2026. After that, they lose about 75–90% of their value by 
the time Uranus enters the next sign. Sectors most prone to this boom-bust cycle in the next six years 
include computers, technology, artificial intelligence, automobiles (electric and driverless), airplanes, 
space exploration, drones, quantum computing, and media companies. It is quite possible that the 
tech-heavy NASDAQ will outperform the DJIA, even with the former being bullish during much of 
this period while the latter is bearish. These are the fields to look for the best investment possibilities, 
but they are also the areas in which bankruptcies are more prone to occur prior to 2032, much like the 
dot-com bubble of 2000–2002. 
CONCLUSIONS 
Last year’s book concluded, “Our studies suggest that the stock market is rising to the crest 
of its three-year cycle, ideally due November 2024–July 2025. The ideal price range for this 
crest is approximately 44,000–51,000.” The three-year cycle in the DJIA topped out on Decem -
ber 5, 2024, at 45,059 with a double top of 45,054 on January 31, 2025. Last year’s conclusion 
went on to state, “Once the 3-year cycle crest is completed, a sharp decline (greater than 10%) 
is expected to end by November 2025. Traders and investors are advised to buy that decline in 
anticipation of yet another rally to test or exceed the highs that happened before the decline to 
the 3-year cycle trough.” That also happened with the 3-year cycle low of April 7, in which the 
DJIA fell to 36,611, a drop of 18.74%. It then soared to a new all-time high as this is being writ -
ten, currently challenging 50,000. 
For 2026, our forecast calls for the crest of the 18-year cycle to take place at 49,400–57,750, with 
special attention in the zone of 51,609–52,342. This could be achieved prior to the completion of the 
first 50-week cycle, due within 16 weeks of March 27, or within the 2–5 months that follow this low. 
That second high (crest of the second 50-week cycle) could be a double top to the first high, and if so, 
it sets the stage for the beginning of a 37–63% decline due 2028 +/- 1 year. Thus, traders are advised 
to buy the first 50-week cycle trough due within 16 weeks of March 27, 2026, but then look to sell 
the crest of the second 50-week cycle due 2–5 months afterwards. 
THREE-STAR CRITICAL REVERSAL DATES FOR DJIA IN 2026 
Last year’s CRDs correctly identified 12 of the 13 reversal dates listed. The following is a list of 
three-star geocosmic critical reversal dates (CRDs). They are most valid when a market is also in the 
time band for a primary, half-primary, or major cycle crest or trough, but may also apply to secondary 
highs or lows that are tradeable. Allow a range of three trading days. 
106

--- PAGE 111 ---
January 16–19 
February 27–March 1 
March 20–23 
April 24–27 
May 22–25 
July 17–20 (may be a secondary cycle to July 6 period) 
August 14–17 (may be a secondary cycle to August 7–10 period) 
September 4–7 (holiday, allow 1 week orb) 
October 2–5 (may be secondary cycle October 9–12 period) 
December 7 (allow 5-day orb) 
References: 
1. Merriman, Raymond, The Ultimate Book on Stock Market Timing, Volume 1: Cycles and Patterns in the 
Indexes, 3rd edition, Seek-It Publications, Scottsdale, AZ, USA, September 2017. 
2. Merriman, Raymond, The Ultimate Book on Stock Market Timing, Volume 2: Geocosmic Correlations to 
Investment Cycles, 2nd edition, Seek-It Publications, Scottsdale, AZ, USA, 2012. 
107

--- PAGE 112 ---
THE NASDAQ IN 2026 
by Wiebke Held, MMA Analyst 
INTRODUCTION 
This year, MMA is pleased to provide a yearly outlook on the NASDAQ Composite by MMTA 
Director and MMAAnalyst Wiebke Held. Many of the longer-term cycles will match well with those 
of the DJIA, although their actual completions will often be slightly apart from one another in weeks 
or even months. 
REVIEW AND PREVIEW 
The NASDAQ Composite Index started the year with a retest on January 24, 2025, of the all-time 
high that was printed on December 16, 2024. This all-time high of 20,205 was the 3-year cycle crest 
that formed after a remarkable 100% gain following the lows that formed in October 2022, which 
was the 6-year cycle trough. The retest of the all-time highs occurred again (triple top) on February 
18, which then marked the start of a quick and steep decline into the expected 3-year cycle trough, 
which formed on April 7, 2025, at 14,784. The 3-year cycle trough was followed by an equally steep 
and quick rally with only shallow pullbacks. As expected in the first phases of new cycles, they are 
extremely bullish. And as of this writing, the NASDAQ is still making new highs. 
In 2026, we are now reaching the time band for the first 50-week cycle trough within the new 
3-year cycle, which will likely be followed by another rally into the crest of the second 50-week 
phase of the 3-year cycle. But traders and investors must be on the lookout, as this current 3-year 
cycle is the last phase of the current 6- and 9-year cycles, and those are the last phase of the current 
18-year cycle. 
With long-term cycles being in their last phase, and intermediate-term cycles entering their sec -
ond phase in 2026, the likelihood of the 18-year crest forming in 2026 is high, which would be the 
start of the decline into the 18-year cycle trough. 
For both the long- and intermediate-term cycles analysis, the NASDAQ Composite Index (Ticker: 
IXIC) is used, since this index provides the most historical data available. In the following sections, 
I will refer to the NASDAQ Composite Index as the “NASDAQ.” 
LONG-TERM CYCLES 
Cycle Start / Progress Next Due 
18-year March 2009 / 16 years, 8 months October 2024 – August 2027 
9-year March 2020 / 5 years, 8 months January 2028 – April 2031 
6-year October 2022 / 3 years, 1 month February 2027–September 2029 
Cycle Progress in the long-term cycles present within the 18-year cycle. The progress (middle 
column) is measured as of early November 2025. This is the preferred path and labeling. 
108

--- PAGE 113 ---
The 18-Year Cycle 
Since the NASDAQ started trading in 1971, there have been three prominent lows in 1974, 1990, 
and 2009 that suggest an 18-year cycle is present in the NASDAQ. Measured across 100% of the 
instances of the 18-year cycle, its normal length is 17.3 years with an orb of 17 months. Measured 
from its start in March 2009, the NASDAQ will be entering its 17th year of the 18-year cycle in early 
2026. The 18-year cycle trough is due 2024–2027. So as of 2026, we are now in the third year of the 
time band for the 18-year cycle trough. 
There are 3 lows and 2 completed cycles of the 18-year cycle in the history of the NASDAQ so 
far. The past data suggest that the NASDAQ is following the same long-term cycle rhythm as the 
Dow Jones and S&P500 indices. Thus, we use the March 2009 low as the 18-year cycle low even 
though the low in 2002 was lower. 
Historically, the 18-year cycle has rallied from its starting low to its crest for 161 months on aver-
age, with a range of 113–180 months before the crest forms. Since March 2009, the NASDAQ has 
rallied for 198 months and is still making new all-time highs as of this writing in November 2025. 
This is the longest period of increase in its history. The appreciation from trough to crest has histori-
cally been 788–1489%, with an average gain of 1139%. The appreciation from the low in March 2009 
until late October 2025 has been over 1680%, again the largest appreciation in its history. Being well 
into the time band for the 18-year cycle trough and seeing an extension beyond the historical bound-
aries of time, going up and appreciation, led me to conclude that the 18-year cycle crest is imminent. 
Declines from the crest to the trough have historically lasted 13–108 months with an average of 
61 months. The decline into the 18-year cycle from 1974 to 1990 lasted 13 months, and the decline 
109

--- PAGE 114 ---
into the 18-year cycle from 1990 to 2009 lasted 103 months. If we count the months from the last 
18-year cycle crest in March 2000 to the low in October 2002, the decline lasted 30 months, before a 
double bottom in 2009 stretched this period longer. Hence, one could argue that a more normal length 
of decline into an 18-year cycle trough lasts from 13 to 30 months. The depreciation from the crest to 
the trough has ranged from 34%–75% with an average decline of 55%. 
The current 18-year cycle is breaking down into a combination pattern with lows at the 1/3 
(6-year cycle) and 1/2 marks (9-year cycle). Let’s explore the phases of the 18-year cycle next to 
refine this market timing projection. 
The 9-Year Cycle 
In the history of the NASDAQ, there are 5 completed instances of the 9-year cycle, which is the 
half-cycle to the 18-year cycle. The 9-year cycle has a mean periodicity of 9.5 years and a normal 
length of 8–11 years. The last 9-year cycle trough happened in March 2020 when the COVID-19 pan-
demic hit, and slightly expanded to 11 years and 1 month. Measured from the March 2020 low, the 
current 9-year cycle is in its 6th year. The next 9-year cycle trough is due between January 2028 and 
April 2031. One may notice that this time band does not overlap with the 18-year cycle time band. 
We at MMA know that cycles tend to balance out over time. Hence, I expect the current 9-year cycle 
to be on the shorter side in length or even contract (6–8 years), as the first 9-year cycle was slightly 
on the longer side and thus expanded somewhat. 
The current 9-year cycle is breaking down into a 3-phase pattern with 3-year cycle lows (range 
26–36 months) in October 2022 and April 2025. We are now in the third 3-year cycle which is the 
final phase of the current 9-year cycle, when the low of the 9-year cycle would normally be due. 
Since 1971, all but one 9-year cycle exhibited a right translation, meaning the crest formed 
past the mid-point of the cycle, which is a bullish trend characteristic. Historically, bullish 9-year 
cycles have peaked between 79–132 months with an average of 98 months. As of this writing in 
November 2025, the current 9-year cycle has been going up for 68 months from its start in March 
2020. The appreciation of bullish 9-year cycles has been between 207%–642% with an average of 
421%. Based on this study, the price target for the current 9-year cycle crest is 34,700 with a range 
of 20,500–49,400. The current 9-year cycle has appreciated over 260% so far and is well within 
that range. 
The historical range of decline from the crest to trough in bullish 9-year cycles has been 1–15 
months, with an average of 8 months. The historical depreciation in all cases has seen a range of 
29%–75% with an average of 40%. Since we are in the third and final 3-year cycle phase of two 
9-year cycles within the greater 18-year cycle, the next 9-year cycle trough will also be the 18-year 
cycle trough. Thus, we anticipate a 29–75% decline once the crest is in. 
The 6-Year Cycle 
In the history of the NASDAQ, 8 completed instances of the 6-year cycle can be observed at the 
1/3 intervals of the greater 18-year cycle. The 6-year cycle has a mean periodicity of 5.5 years and a 
normal length of 4–7 years. The last 6-year cycle trough culminated in October 2022. Measured from 
this low, the current 6-year cycle is in its 3rd year. This is the third and final 6-year cycle within the 
current 18-year cycle. 
110

--- PAGE 115 ---
The current 6-year cycle is exhibiting a breakdown into a 2-phase pattern (3-year cycle low in 
April 2025) with bullish characteristics (higher highs and higher lows). 
Since 1971, all 6-year cycles exhibited a bullish right translation pattern. Historically, 6-year 
cycles have rallied from trough to crest between 39–76 months with an average of 61 months. As of 
this writing in November 2025, the current 6-year cycle has been going up for 37 months from its 
start in October 2022. The appreciation of 6-year cycles has been between 116%–409% with an aver-
age of 241%. Based on these studies, the price target for the 6-year cycle crest is 34,300 with a range 
of 21,700–51,200. The current 6-year cycle has appreciated over 139% so far and is well within the 
target range already. 
The historical range of decline from the crest to trough in all instances of the 6-year cycle has 
been 1–31 months, with an average of 12 months. The historical depreciation has seen a range of 
20%–78% with an average of 38%. Since we are in the third and final of three 6-year cycles within 
the greater 18-year cycle, the next 6-year cycle trough will also be the 9-year cycle and 18-year 
cycle trough. 
Summarizing the long-term cycle review, traders and investors must be alert to the possibility 
of a long-term cycle crest forming at any time now, as the 18-year cycle has already exceeded its 
historical range of time going up and appreciation. Thus, 2026 will likely be the year in which we 
will see the 18-year cycle crest forming. Looking at the sub-cycles of the 18-year cycle, we enter the 
time band for the crest to form within the next 2–11 months, when the 9-year and 6-year cycles start 
to enter their historical ranges. Both cycles have already entered the price target range for their crests. 
As long as price remains above the 22- and 33-month moving average on the monthly chart and 
the market is making new highs, we have not seen the 18-year cycle crest yet. The price target range 
for the crest, where the 9- and 6-year cycle price targets overlap, is 21,700–49,400. Once the crest is 
in, there will be a steep decline into the 18-year cycle trough, which is due in the next 2 years, and 
more specifically, where the time bands of the 18- and 6-year cycles overlap (February 2027–August 
2027). The decline will likely last between 1 and 31 months, with a depreciation of 33%–78% from 
the crest. 
INTERMEDIATE-TERM CYCLES 
Let’s now further analyze the intermediate-term cycles, as each long-term cycle contains smaller 
sub-cycles (the MMA principle of “cycles within cycles”), enabling us to make more refined market 
timing projections by breaking down and following these sub-cycles and formulate a trading plan for 
2026. 
Cycle Start / Progress Next Due 
3-year April 7, 2025 / 7 months June 2027–April 2028 
50-week April 7, 2025 / 30 weeks January 2026–May 2026 
Cycle’s Progress in the intermediate-term cycles present within the 9-year and 6-year 
cycles. The progress (middle column) is measured as of early November 2025. 
This is the preferred path and labeling. 
111

--- PAGE 116 ---
The 3-Year Cycle 
The cycle that both the 9-year and 6-year cycles share is the 3-year cycle. Last year’s trading plan 
was built around the 3-year cycle trough that was expected between December 2024 and October 
2025. And indeed, it did culminate within this time band on April 7, 2025, at 14,784 in the NASDAQ. 
It was a sharp and quick decline of 27% from the 3-year cycle crest that formed on December 16, 
2024, at 20,205, and satisfied our criteria for a 3-year cycle low. We are now in the third and final 
3-year cycle phase of the greater 9-year cycle. That same 3-year cycle is also the third and final phase 
within the current 6-year cycle. This means the current 3-year cycle is the last intermediate-term 
cycle phase within the current 18-year cycle. 
November 2025 starts the 8th month of the current 3-year cycle. This is a great example of why 
MMA’s “cycles within cycles” principle is so valuable. By tracking and breaking down the intermedi-
ate-term cycles, we can get a detailed read on the long-term cycles and their development and status. 
Since 1980, there have been 16 completed 3-year cycles observed in the NASDAQ. In 80% of 
the instances, the 3-year cycle in the NASDAQ has a normal length of 2.6 years or 31 months with 
a normal range of 26–36 months. Thus, the current 3-year cycle is due to bottom next between June 
2027 and April 2028. This overlaps with the time band of the long-term cycles from June 2027 to 
August 2027, making this a high probability time band for the 18-year cycle trough, where most 
cycles overlap (the “hot zone”). 
Historically, in 80% of the cases, 3-year cycles have rallied between 10–37 months to their crest 
with an average of 26 months. As of this writing, the current 3-year cycle has been going up for 7 
months from its start in April 2025 and will enter the time band for its crest to form in 3 months (begin-
ning of 2026). By that time, the 6-year cycle will also have entered the time band for its crest. The 9-year 
cycle will enter the time band for its crest in October 2026, but let’s keep in mind that we are expecting 
a short 9-year cycle in which the crest could happen earlier than the historical time band. 
112

--- PAGE 117 ---
The appreciation of 3-year cycles has been between 55%–122% with an average of 99%. Based 
on these studies, the price target for the 3-year cycle crest is 29,600 with a range of 23,050–33,050. 
This falls right within the price target range for the long-term cycle of 21,700–49,400, narrowing 
down that range. The current 3-year cycle has appreciated over 60% so far from its starting low in 
April 2025 and has already entered the target price range. We can conclude that the 3-year cycle crest 
price target range is the one to focus on for the 18-year cycle crest as well. 
Once the crest is in, the historical range of decline from the crest to trough in 3-year cycles has been 
1–14 months with an average of 6 months. The historical depreciation has seen a range of 11%–49% 
with an average of 30%. Moreover, from our studies, we know that the last phase of a greater cycle often 
retests the second phase low. In the case of the 9-year cycle, that would be the low of October 2022, 
which, from the current highs, would represent a 55–60% decline. In case of the 6-year cycle, this would 
be the low of April 2025, which, from the current highs, would represent a 35–40% decline. 
The 50-Week Cycle 
The 3-year cycle in the NASDAQ further breaks down into three 50-week cycles, when it unfolds in 
a 3-phase pattern. Historically, in 80% of the cases, the 50-week cycle has a normal length of 50 weeks 
with a range of 35–65 weeks. If the 50-week cycles are on the longer side, then a 3-year cycle can also 
break down into two 50-week cycles, as in a 2-phase pattern. Another possibility is a breakdown into a 
combination pattern, in which we would see lows at the 1/3 and 1/2 intervals of the greater 3-year cycle. 
Measured from its start in October 2022, the previous 3-year cycle broke down in a 3-phase 
pattern with 50-week cycle lows in October 2023, August 2025, and the third and final low in April 
2025. As of this writing in November 2025, the current 50-week cycle, measured from its start in 
April 2025, has progressed 30 weeks. The next 50-week cycle trough is due in March 2026, with a 
range of January 2026 – May 2026, when a 1/6 orb of the normal length is applied. If the orb of 15 
weeks is applied, the 50-week cycle trough range increases from December 2025 to July 2026. 
The current 50-week cycle seems to be breaking down in a 3-phase pattern. Currently, we are 
only in the second phase of the 50-week cycle. Historically, in 80% of the cases, 50-week cycles have 
rallied between 22–65 weeks from trough to crest with an average of 43 weeks. Thus, we are already 
in the range for the crest. However, since this is only the first 50-week cycle in a new 3-year cycle 
and the first 50-week cycle usually exhibits bullish characteristics, I expect the crest to form within 
the second or third phase, which would be December 2025 through March 2026. The appreciation 
from trough to crest has historically ranged from 18%–73% with an average of 39%. Measured from 
the starting trough in April 2025, this gives us a price target range of 17,500–25,700 for the current 
50-week cycle, which has also been achieved as of this writing. 
Once the crest is in, in 80% of the cases, 50-week cycles have declined from the crest to the 
trough for 4–38 weeks with an average of 13 weeks. The historical depreciation from the crest to the 
trough ranges from 8%–34% with an average of 18%. Thus, we anticipate an 8%–34% drop in the 
NASDAQ in the first half of 2026. 
GEOCOSMIC INDICATORS 
During the years 2026 until 2027, there is an abundance of geocosmic signatures happening that 
have relevance for timing market cycles. I will focus on the overlap period of the identified market 
cycle time bands in the previous section. 
113

--- PAGE 118 ---
Let’s first look at the critical reversal dates for 2026 that are specific to the NASDAQ. Critical 
Reversal Dates are high-probability market turning points identified through proprietary algorithms 
by Jonathan Jairaj and Wiebke Held, based on the correlation of market and planetary cycles in the 
NASDAQ for the past 40+ years. The methods to derive the CRDs are built upon The Ultimate Book 
on Stock Market Timing Volume 3: Geocosmic Correlations to Trading Cycles, by Raymond Merri-
man, and have been further enhanced to improve prediction accuracy for the NASDAQ. 
CRDs are ranked by correlation strength, with three-star CRDs signifying the highest probability 
for cycle crests or troughs to form. There are six three-star Critical Reversal Dates (CRDs) in 2026 
for the NASDAQ: 
January 20 (+/– 4 trading days) 
March 22–25 (+/– 4 trading days) 
June 15 (+/– 4 trading days) 
July 20–25 (+/– 4 trading days) 
September 15–25 (+/– 4 trading days) 
October 3–November 14 (Venus Retrograde) 
Together with the cycles analysis from the previous sections, these CRDs narrow down the 
time bands for when to expect major turning points in the NASDAQ in 2026. As we expect a 
50-week cycle crest and trough in the first half of 2026, watch for the 50-week cycle crest and/or 
trough culminating around the first three CRDs (January 20, March 22–25, June 15). Even though 
it is not my preferred scenario, we must be open to the possibility that the first 50-week cycle crest 
may also be the greater 18-year cycle crest. This would be supported by the following long-term 
geocosmic signatures: 
Saturn–Neptune Conjunction February 20, 2026 Level 1 
Saturn–Pluto Waxing Sextile Mar 28, 2026 Level 1 
The Saturn–Neptune conjunction and the Saturn–Pluto waxing sextile correlate to more interme-
diate-term and long-term cycle crests than troughs, according to The Ultimate Book on Stock Market 
Timing Volume 2: Geocosmic Correlations to Investment Cycles, by Raymond Merriman. As the 
March 22–25 CRD is overlapping with the Saturn–Pluto waxing sextile, I cannot rule out the pos -
sibility of a significant long-term cycle crest forming in that period. 
From a long-term cycle perspective, there is quite a remarkable geocosmic cluster right in the 
middle of the year between July 15–25. The cluster contains the following geocosmic signatures: 
Uranus–Neptune Waxing Sextile July 15, 2026 Level 2 
Uranus–Pluto Waxing trine July 18, 2026 Level 1 
Jupiter–Pluto Opposition July 20, 2026 Level 1 
Jupiter–Neptune Waxing trine July 20, 2026 Level 2 
Jupiter–Uranus Waxing Sextile July 21, 2026 Level 3 
Neptune–Pluto Waxing Sextile July 25, 2026 Level 1 
114

--- PAGE 119 ---
Except for the Jupiter aspects, all the aspects are directly involved in the “Aries V ortex” formation, 
as introduced by Ray Merriman in the Forecast 2024 book. One could view the Jupiter aspects to Pluto, 
Neptune, and Uranus as an additional trigger to the “Aries V ortex.” Moreover, these signatures are 
happening within only 10 days of each other and thus form the strongest geocosmic cluster of the year. 
According to our NASDAQ CRD studies, these geocosmic signatures are highly relevant and 
correlate with reversals in the NASDAQ as indicated by the July 15–25 CRD. This period would 
certainly provide the geocosmic backdrop for an 18-year cycle crest to form, as all these signatures 
also tie into the larger, long-term picture. This is my preferred scenario for the 18-year cycle crest to 
form. It’s not my bias that we will see the 18-year cycle trough form within the July 15–25 period. 
However, should we see a decline that exceeds 34% within this timeframe, then it is a possibility. 
Another consideration for the 18-year cycle trough is the Saturn–Uranus synodic cycle, which 
has one of the strongest correlations, if not the strongest, to long-term market cycles in the NASDAQ. 
Readers should be aware that the extended time band for the Saturn–Uranus waning semi-square, 
which has three passages in April 2027, October 2027, and January 2028, starts in July 2026 and 
lasts until October 2028. The central time band is from March 2027 until February 2028 and overlaps 
nicely with the hot zone for the 18-year cycle (June–August 2027). 
Thus, my bias is that we will not see the 18-year cycle trough in 2026, but rather in 2027, as there 
will be another geocosmically-charged period in June 2027 that would fit better with the 18-year 
cycle trough time band. It contains the following geocosmic signatures: 
Uranus–Neptune Waxing Sextile June 6, 2027 Level 2 
Uranus–Pluto Waxing trine June 15, 2027 Level 1 
Neptune–Pluto Waxing Sextile June 28, 2027 Level 1 
Again, all aspects in this cluster are part of the “Aries V ortex.” More importantly, it falls right into 
the “Hot Zone” overlap of the 18-, 6-, and 3-year cycles. Hence, from a cycle and geocosmic study 
point of view, an 18-year cycle trough falling within this cluster is the preferred scenario. 
The “Jupiter Effect” (updated by Pouyan Zolfagharnia and calculated by Sergey Trassov) is 
another study to mention here. It suggests a possible steep decline when Jupiter is moving towards 
mid-Leo. Jupiter will be in the sign of Leo from June 2026 until July 2027, which overlaps with both 
geocosmic cluster zones in 2026 and 2027 and further supports the outlook of a significant crest and 
trough during that time frame. 
And then there is also Venus turning retrograde from October 3, 2026, until November 14, 2026. Dur-
ing the last Venus retrograde period from March 2 until April 13, 2025, the previous 3-year cycle crest was 
tested on February 18, which was only 9 trading days prior to Venus turning retrograde. Only two trading 
days before, on March 2, the market broke below the start of the primary cycle and was rendered bearish 
with a final retest of that structural break on March 3, the first trading day after Venus turned retrograde. 
The 3-year cycle trough culminated on April 7, only four trading days prior to Venus turning direct. 
Thus, in 2026, the Venus retrograde period could correlate again with a crest and/or trough of 
significance. If we don’t see the 18-year cycle crest forming within the June CRD, then watch the 
Venus retrograde period or the September 15–25 CRD closely. Another possibility during this period 
is a retest of the highs, if a crest forms around the June CRD. 
115

--- PAGE 120 ---
CONCLUSION 
In the longer-term picture, 2026 will likely witness the 18–year cycle crest. The price target range 
is 23,050–33,050, or if this is exceeded, up to 49,400 (extreme target). Once the crest is in, the decline 
into the 18-year cycle trough will start. This decline will likely last between 1–31 months or 1–15, 
if we take the narrower time band from the 18-year cycle phases (9- and 6-year cycles). The highest 
probability is for the 18-year cycle trough to occur in 2027 or 2028, with a narrower time band from 
February through August 2027 and a “hot zone” of June through August 2027. 
In the intermediate-term picture, a 50-week cycle crest is due in the first quarter of 2026 (if not 
already formed by December 2025) with a price target of 17,500–25,700. This crest will be followed 
by an 8–34% decline in the NASDAQ into the first 50-week cycle low of the current 3-year cycle. 
The time band for this low is December 2025 through July 2026, with a “hot zone” between January 
and May 2026. Watch the January 20, March 22–25, and June 15 CRDs closely during this time, as 
those deliver the highest probability time windows for the 50-week crest and trough to unfold. 
The 50-week cycle trough will be followed by another rally into the second half of 2026 that will 
likely last 22–65 weeks with an appreciation of 18%–73%, forming the crest of the second 50-week 
cycle in the current 3-year cycle. The July 15–25 CRD is the ideal geocosmic backdrop for this to 
happen. The question is whether this crest will exceed the first 50-week cycle crest or not, as at some 
point the 3-year cycle will likely turn bearish and start the decline into the 18-year cycle trough. 
My preferred scenario is that the crest of the second 50-week cycle will retest or slightly exceed 
the crest of the first 50-week cycle, forming a double top formation. This would signal that the 
18-year crest is likely to unfold in Q2 or Q3, depending on how the cycle count develops after the 
first 50-week cycle trough. 
However, if the second 50-week cycle crest rises clearly above the first crest and prices continue 
trading higher, then the 18-year cycle crest is more likely to occur at the end of the second 50-week 
cycle. In that case, we would expect a retest by the crest of the third 50-week cycle, and an 18-week 
primary cycle crest would be expected later in 2026 (Q3-Q4). In this scenario, pay close attention 
to the September 15–25 CRD and the Venus retrograde period (October 3–November 14) for a sig -
nificant long-term cycle crest. All scenarios will continue to be reviewed and refined in the monthly 
MMA Tech Report. 
These conditions would represent a textbook long-term cycle crest with a classic double top 
formation formed by intermediate-term cycles. However, it is important to remember that the final 
phases of a greater cycle most often distort, and the pattern may not unfold in a perfect textbook man-
ner. We are currently in the final phases of all long-term cycles, so the intermediate-term cycles may 
be shorter or longer than their normal length and range, or can even be skipped completely. 
Therefore, if we observe a decline greater than 34% in the NASDAQ, that would indicate the 
decline into the 18-year cycle trough is likely underway. In that event, traders and investors should 
be prepared to buy the long-term cycle trough of the 18-year cycle. Additionally, any intermediate-
term cycle crest that develops in late 2025 or 2026 should be viewed as an opportunity for traders and 
investors to reduce exposure to the NASDAQ and the broader US stock market in anticipation of the 
decline into the 18-year cycle low. 
116

--- PAGE 121 ---
GOLD IN 2026 
by Wyatt Fellows, MMA Analyst 
REVIEW 
What an incredible year for Gold in 2025! At the time of writing last year’s Forecast 2025 book, 
we were in the time band for an intermediate low when it was written, “Gold is due for a second 10.5-
month cycle low by November 2024. The price target for this low could be between $2350–$2575.” 
Indeed, Gold bottomed out on November 14 at 2541.50. It then exploded to an all-time high of $4398 
on October 20. This was above even our most optimistic price target mentioned last year, which was 
$3743 +/- 411. Since peaking, Gold is now in the process of correcting back into a 50-week and 
31-month cycle low that is due ideally by the end of January 2026. If a bottom forms, then all eyes 
will be on whether or not Gold can eclipse that $4398 high in 2026. 
Gold Cycles Start/Progress as of 1/1/26 Next Due 
16-year December 2015, 11th year 2029–2033 
7.8-year (94 months) November 2022, 38th month October 2029–July 2031 
31-month November 2022, 38th month By January 2026 
10.5-month (50-week) November 2024, 58 weeks By December 2025 
16-YEAR CYCLE 
Gold likely has a 16-year long-term cycle, which aligns well with the lengths of long-term cycles 
in other financial and commodity markets. However, since we only have two observed instances of 
this cycle (three if you consider 1968 as a viable low, as I do), it will take many more years of data to 
confirm this. Until that happens, we will operate under the assumption that Gold has a 16-year cycle 
with a historical 2-year orb. It last bottomed in December 2015, placing 2026 in the 11th year of the 
current cycle. It is next due to bottom in 2029–2033. As we are past the halfway point of the long-
term cycle, we need to be aware that a crest could form at any moment. It could even have occurred 
at the October 2025 all-time high of $4398, but this is not our current bias. 
What is interesting about the $4398 high is that it was very close to an exact doubling of the 
rise from the preceding 16-year cycle. Measuring from the double bottom lows of 1999–2001 to 
the 16-year crest of September 2011, Gold rallied $1667. If we double that amount and add it to the 
December 2015 16-year bottom of $1045, we get $4379. The October high of $4398 is within $20 
of this price target, which means it needs to be given some serious consideration for being a 16-year 
high. Right now, our bias is that Gold will make further gains in 2026 before ultimately peaking out, 
but if Gold experiences a monthly close below $2541 before making a new all-time high, then the top 
for this 16-year cycle is probably in. Until that happens, the next upside price targets for this 16-year 
cycle are $5016 +/- 467, followed by $5410 +/- 515. 
117

--- PAGE 122 ---
THE 7.8-YEAR CYCLE 
All cycles typically break down into two or three sub-cycles of approximately equal length. For 
Gold, the 16-year cycle predominantly breaks down into a two-phase pattern of 7.8-year cycles. This 
7.8-year cycle is 94 months long and has a normal range of 84–104 months. Measuring from the start 
of this current 16-year cycle that bottomed in December 2015, we would have expected the first 7.8-
year cycle phase to bottom sometime between December 2022 and August 2024. Instead, it bottomed 
one month early (83rd month) in November 2022 at $1618. We might now consider the new normal 
range of these cycles to be 83–104 months. 
January 2026 will begin the 38th month of the second 7.8-year cycle phase measured from the 
November 2022 bottom. It is next due between October 2029 and July 2031 and will coincide with 
the next 16-year cycle low (notice the nice overlap of the time bands for both lows). The crest will 
happen first, and it was stated last year, “There have been seven 7.8-year cycles since 1968, and not 
one has peaked out before the 34th month. This implies that even higher prices for Gold are in store 
for 2025.” This proved to be even more than correct, with Gold surpassing all upside price targets. 
Last year also stated, “If we look at just the second phase 7.8-year cycles, which we are now in, 
these have topped out in the 35th month twice and also in the 41st month of the cycle. This gives us 
a general time period for a crest between October 2025 and April 2026 at the earliest.” So, we have 
another reason to consider that Gold may have formed a long-term top in October 2025, as this was 
the first month of the time band for when we expected a bearish 7.8-year crest to form. If not, then we 
expect a crest to form by April 2026, but it may spill over into May or June. 
Gold has already exploded through all of the normal upside price targets given in last year’s 
forecast. If the rally continues, as we suspect, then Fibonacci extension targets for a 7.8-year crest 
may be $5108 and $5352. These overlap nicely with the price targets given for the 16-year crest 
earlier. There is an even higher price target around $6600 using the highest range of historical per -
centage gains of 7.8–year cycles. But the preferred targets would be in the lower measured price 
target ranges just given. Once this 31-month cycle bottoms, we will then be able to narrow down 
possible upside objectives. 
118

--- PAGE 123 ---
INTERMEDIATE TERM CYCLES 
Based on the fact that all cycles break down into two or three sub-cycle phases, the 7.8-year 
cycle could break down into either two 47-month cycles or three 31-month cycles. The predominant 
breakdown has been the three-phase pattern, so we are basing the current forecast on the assumption 
that this 7.8-year cycle will break down in this manner. 
January 2026 will begin the 38th month of the first 31-month cycle measured off the start of the 
current 7.8-year cycle in November 2022. With a normal range of 24–38 months, it is due to bottom 
by the end of January 2026 (if it hasn’t bottomed already in November or December). However, there 
is always a chance it could expand by a few months. The crest of this first 31-month cycle phase 
topped on October 20 at a price of $4398. This was a 172% gain and it was in line with the historical 
gains of this cycle. When looking at all 31-month cycle phases that immediately follow a 7.8-year 
low, all but one have been bullish (as this one has been), and they only decline for 1–4 months before 
bottoming. This supports the idea that a significant low in Gold should be in by the end of January, 
with an outside chance of it occurring as late as February 2026. 
A normal corrective price target for this coming 31-month low would be $2680–$3336. We would 
also like to see the 16-month moving average tested on the decline (currently around $3200 and rising), 
but given that this has been an extremely bullish cycle, Gold may bottom at a higher level than usual. 
At the very least, a 20% decline could be anticipated, which targets $3500 +/- $100. We would 
also prefer to see prices at least test the 16-month moving average, which stands at about $3200 in 
mid-November 2025 and rises about $100/mo. At whatever price the 31-month cycle ultimately bot-
toms, our bias is that new all-time highs are in store for 2026. 
The 31-month cycles can break down into two 16-month half cycles (with a range of 13–20 
months) or three 10.5-month cycles with a range of 9–12 months (sometimes expanding up to 14 
months). The 10.5-month cycle can be referred to as a 50-week cycle that carries an 8-week orb. 
Often, we will get a combination of two- and three-phased patterns. However, the current 31-month 
cycle is breaking down as a classic three-phase pattern of three 50-week cycles. The start of the third 
and final 50-week cycle was November 14, 2024, so it is due to bottom by the end of December 2025 
unless it expands by a few weeks, which is a possibility given that the longer 31-month cycle is also 
due to bottom at the end of this current 50-week cycle. 
While the above outlines when, and at what price, we think this first 31-month cycle will bottom 
before ultimately continuing higher into 2026, we need to entertain the possibility that this 7.8-year 
cycle might instead display the less frequent two-phased pattern of two 47-month cycles instead. A 
clue that this might be happening is if Gold fails to even reach the 50-week moving average on this 
decline (currently around $3293 in mid-November 2025 and rising about 30/mo.) or fails to decline 
for even a month before making new highs past December. Such a shallow decline could still be a 
50-week cycle low (47-month cycles contain four 50-week cycles and two 23.5-month half cycles), 
but it would mean that Gold would be rallying in the fourth and final 50-week cycle instead of the 
first 50-week cycle in a new 31-month cycle. 
Even in this scenario, we are expecting new all-time highs for Gold in 2026. However, if it is a 
47-month cycle crest that is forming early in 2026, then we could also be looking at an extremely 
steep decline in the coming year as well. This is because a 47-month low would then be due February 
2026–June 2027. 
119

--- PAGE 124 ---
GEOCOSMICS 
Saturn in aspect to a planet outside of its orbit has proved to be timely in ushering in a major high 
or low in the Gold market. Specifically, at all but one 7.8-year high or low, Saturn has been aspecting 
Uranus, Neptune, or Pluto within a reasonable orb of time around the occurrence. And, at the one 
instance where Saturn wasn’t making an aspect to Uranus, Neptune, or Pluto (March 2008 high), 
Saturn was still involved, as this was when the last instance of Jupiter in a waxing trine to Saturn 
took place. The reason this is so important for the coming year is that we will have Saturn forming 
a waning sextile to Uranus in January 2026, Saturn conjunct Neptune in February 2026, and Saturn 
forming a waxing sextile to Pluto in March 2026. This makes the first half of 2026 a very good time 
for the current 7.8-year cycle to top out. 
First up will be Saturn forming a waning sextile to Uranus, taking place on January 19, 2026. It 
will be the third and final pass of this aspect, with the first two having occurred on April 4, 2025, and 
August 11, 2025. What is interesting is that the previous occurrence of this aspect was in 1979–1980 
and occurred in three passes as well. The first was September 16, 1979, and led to a 10.5-month cycle 
crest three weeks later. The second passage on February 17, 1980, was big for Gold. It coincided with 
a 16-year crest four weeks earlier when Gold hit an all-time high of $873 in January 1980. This high 
remained in place for the next 28 years until it was finally surpassed in 2008. The last pass occurred 
on July 4, 1980, and was followed by a primary cycle crest one week later. Based on historical pre -
cedence, it is within reason that we could see the final 50-week and also 31-month cycle low form 
within 4 weeks of January 19, 2026. 
We also need to acknowledge the fact that a 16-year cycle high did occur during the central time 
band of this aspect in the past, and did so with price moving in a parabolic-like manner. Something 
similar is occurring this time around with Gold having exploded to a high (so far) on October 20, 
2025. This is also in the central time band of Saturn, forming a waning sextile to Uranus. While our 
bias is for new highs in Gold during 2026, the possibility that another 16-year high could be in by 
January 19, 2026, is certainly plausible too. 
As we move into February, Saturn will form a conjunction with Neptune on the World Point of 
0° Aries. Neptune in Aries could usher in another inflationary wave to wash over the markets, which 
could propel commodity markets (like metals) higher. Gold also has shown to like Neptune and per-
forms favorably when aspects involving Neptune are highlighted. Being that the conjunction between 
Saturn and Neptune is the middle of the three big aspects Saturn is forming to outer planets early in 
2026, makes it a favored time to see a 7.8-year crest within 5 months of February 2026. 
It should also be noted that the last time Saturn entered the sign of Aries was in April 1996. A 7.8-
year crest occurred 2 months prior in February of that year. Might something similar happen when 
Saturn re-enters Aries on February 13, 2026? 
In March, Saturn will form a waxing sextile to Pluto on March 28. The last time this aspect was 
in effect was 1989–1990. At that time, there were three passages that took place, with the third one 
coinciding with a somewhat rare 47-month high within 8 days. Recall that a 7.8-year cycle can break 
down into two 47-month cycle phases. This sets a precedent that a phase of the 7.8-year cycle has 
peaked with this aspect in the past, so it’s possible the top of the second 31-month cycle could be 
around April +/- 1 month. 
120

--- PAGE 125 ---
CONCLUSION 
Last year’s Forecast 2025 book concluded, “Gold is due for a 31-month cycle crest and trough 
in 2025. Once the crest of the 31-month cycle forms, Gold could fall 10–20% to a 31-month cycle 
low that is due anytime during 2025. Ideally, this low forms in the latter half of the year between July 
2025 and December 2025.” As we close out 2025 and turn the calendar to 2026, Gold is following 
this script. Gold formed its 31-month cycle crest in October and is now immersed in a correction to a 
31-month cycle bottom. This bottom is ideally due by the end of December 2025, but may extend into 
January 2026. The price target for this low is quite wide at $2680–$3336. Being that Gold has been 
so bullish (as it should be in the first phase of a new 7.8-year cycle), Gold may not drop as far as we 
might expect. Therefore, a more bullish price target for a low might be $3300–$3600. 
Once the 31-month low forms, we expect Gold to rally to new all-time highs in 2026. Determin-
ing a price target for the next 31-month cycle crest is difficult without knowing exactly where the 
bottom will form, but if it comes in around $3500, Gold could hit $5225 +/- 425 or even $6285 +/-
550. However, exceeding the October 20 high of $4398 will need to happen first. Gold likes to form 
double tops and double bottoms, so there is certainly a risk that the high for Gold in 2026 occurs not 
far from $4400. This would be the most bearish outcome for Gold in 2026. In either case, one of the 
most likely times for this high to form is February 2026 +/- 5 months. 
In the off chance that Gold satisfies the criteria laid out for a 47-month cycle crest forming 
instead in 2026, Gold could see an impressive decline into the second half of the year. 
THREE-STAR CRITICAL REVERSAL DATES FOR 2026—GOLD 
The following is a list of three-star geocosmic critical reversal dates (CRDs) used in MMA’s 
market timing calculations. They are most valid when a market is also in the time band for a primary, 
half-primary, or major cycle crest or trough, but may apply to secondary highs or lows, too, that are 
tradeable. Allow a range of three trading days (sometimes as much as six) to these dates for a reversal. 
Also, use the dates given for CRDs in stocks as well. Both sets will apply to one another, and as you 
see, there will be overlap in many cases between the two lists of CRDs. 
January 16–19 
February 6–9 
March 6–9 
March 20–23 
April 17–20 
May 22–25 
July 2–5 
July 24–27 
August 13–14 
August 28–31 
September 30 
October 12–13 
November 18–19 
December 11–14 
121

--- PAGE 126 ---
SILVER IN 2026 
by Pouyan Zolfagharnia, MMA Analyst 
REVIEW 
Silver has rallied nearly 161% from the October 2023 four-year low of 20.85. In last year’s 
Forecast 2025 book, I stated: “There are two key factors that can drive precious metals to rally: high 
inflation and geopolitical risk. With the case of Silver, demand for the application of Silver in modern 
technologies such as solar panels can also boost prices as we head into a world looking for alterna-
tive sources of energy. As described in the earlier chapters, all these themes will be triggered at the 
Aries Vortex (Feb 2026), which could provide the perfect storm for Silver to rally to a new ATH of 
53.06 +/– 5.27.” 
At the time of this writing, Silver has rallied to a new all-time high (ATH) of 54.42 on November 
13, 2025. My bias is that the price target provided in last year’s report will hold, and that we should 
see a sharp decline in the price of Silver as we approach the Saturn–Neptune conjunction, in time 
for the 26-month half-cycle to the final 4-year cycle within the longer-term 9.25-year and 18.5-year 
cycles. 
Silver Cycles Start/Progress as of 1/1/26 Next Due 
18.5-year October 2008, 18 years 2023–2030 
9.25-year March 2020, 6 years January 2027–November 2030 
6-year March 2020, 6 years March 2025–March 2027 
4-year (48-month) October 2023, 27 months December 2026–July 2028 
26-month October 2023, 27 months July 2025–May 2026 
THE 18.5-YEAR CYCLE IN SILVER AND ITS PHASES 
The basic long-term cycle in Silver is 18.5 years, with a range of 15–22 years. The previous 
instance of this cycle was the double-bottom low of 1991–1993, when Silver fell to $3.51/ounce 
(February 1991 and February 1993) after its all-time high of $50.00/ounce in January 1980. The 
low of February 1991 occurred 19 years and three months after the prior 18.5-year cycle trough of 
November 1971. The next (and most recent) occurrence of this long-term cycle was in October 2008. 
That was 17 years and eight months later, as Silver fell from its crest of 21.44 in March 2008 to a 
low of 8.40 in October 2008, just as Saturn began its five-passage opposition to Uranus that lasted 
through mid-2010. This decline then led to a retest of the all-time high when Silver soared to 49.82 
in April 2011. The next 18.5-year cycle is therefore due in 2027 +/– 3.5 years. In January 2026, we 
will be entering the 17th year and third month of the current cycle, which places us well within the 
orb of the 18.5-year cycle. 
THE 9.25-YEAR HALF-CYCLE 
Silver completed a decline to its 9.25-year half-cycle low in March 2020 when it fell to 11.64, a 
drop of nearly 77% from the April 2011 high. That low occurred 11 years and five months into the 
cycle that began in October 2008. The 9.25-year cycles are usually 7–11 years in length. When we 
122

--- PAGE 127 ---
see cases of cyclical expansion, this is usually followed by a cyclical contraction that restores equi -
librium to the larger cycle. I expect the current 9.25-year cycle to contract closer to seven years, due 
in December 2027 +/– 14 months. 
THE 6-YEAR CYCLE 
The 18.5-year cycle can also break down into three 6-year cycle phases, with a range of 5–7 
years. As shown in the chart above, the first phase was bullish and ended in December 2014 at 14.16, 
which was six years and two months after the 18.5-year cycle commenced. The second phase was 
bearish and ended with the March 2020 low, five years and three months later. This would mean we 
are now in the third and final 6-year cyclical phase, which is expected to complete the longer 18.5-
year cycle in March 2026 +/– 12 months. The overlap with the contracted 9.25-year cycle discussed 
above is October 2026 to March 2027, which is the ideal time for the low. 
Therefore, 2026 will begin the 18th year of the longer-term 18.5-year cycle and the sixth year of 
its second 7- to 11-year half-cycle. The 18.5-year cycle low is due anytime in the next four and a half 
years. The 9.25-year cycle low is due over the next four years. These two cycles are most likely to 
bottom in their overlap, which is 2027–2030. This is also around the same time that the stock market 
is due to bottom, correlating with the lunar node transiting through Aquarius and Capricorn. 
On the other hand, we may be commencing the sixth year of the third and final 6-year phase of the 
18.5-year cycle. The overlap range for this outlook would be slightly earlier, in 2025–2027. Therefore, 
2027 appears to be the year in which all the cycles overlap. We also have the conjunction of the lunar 
node and Pluto taking place in that year. The current 18.5-year cycle commenced with the North Node 
in Aquarius. The North Node will once again enter Aquarius from August 2026 until March 2028. 
Last year, I noted: “The crest of the second 9.25-year cycle is most likely still forming, as we 
continue to record higher highs. At the time of writing this report, prices reached 35.07 in October 
2024. It is also possible that we are in the third and final 6-year phase. We know that these cycles can 
be very explosive. Therefore, it remains unclear whether we can take out the 18.5-year [cycle] crest, 
which was 49.82 in April 2011. If we do, the nominal price target would be 53.06 +/- 5.27.” 
123

--- PAGE 128 ---
We have now satisfied this price target, and if the high of 54.42 holds, I would expect a sharp 
decline in Silver, as we are late in the longer-term cycles. Silver is far more volatile than Gold, and it 
tends to spike up and fall back down very quickly. Silver is currently leading the rally, along with a 
case of bearish intermarket divergence: Gold formed its crest in October, while Silver has just made a 
new ATH. This is suggestive of long-term crest formation. This is also accompanied by bearish oscil-
lator divergence in the CCI in the daily, weekly, and monthly time frames. 
As there is a chance that the 18.5-year cycle trough may form next year, there is a likelihood that 
the long-term crest may have formed at 54.42 or may form very soon within the price target of 
53.06 +/– 5.27. If the crest has formed at 54.42, the Fibonacci price target for the 18.5-year cycle 
trough is 31.41 +/– 5.43. The mid-cycle pause price target suggests a steeper decline to 16.24 +/– 
4.51, which would be a decline of roughly 70%. Historical precedence from the prior two instances 
of the 18.5-year cycle—since Silver began trading on the open market in the 1970s—has shown 
declines of 93% and 61% from the crest. While we do not have sufficient data to draw from, the 
second decline was within range of a 61.8% Fibonacci correction. Therefore, I would look to start 
building long-term positions in the 26.00–31.50 range, while also noting strong support in the 
34.50–35.70 and 28.70–31.10 regions. Please note that if the high of 54.42 is taken out, it will 
invalidate these targets. 
The broader outlook, marked by the risks of inflation and ongoing geopolitical tensions, offers 
little support for a pronounced decline in Silver prices. Yet it is important to remember that Silver has 
historically entered bearish phases during periods of financial upheaval. The troughs witnessed dur -
ing the 2008 financial crisis and the 2020 pandemic lockdown serve as clear examples. Consequently, 
it is plausible that a more extensive financial crisis will ultimately underpin the long-term bearish 
trend that culminates in the 18.5-year cycle trough. 
THE INTERMEDIATE-TERM CYCLES REVISITED 
The 18.5-year cycle will either break down into two 9.25-year half-cycles, three 6-year phases, or 
a combination of the two. From the low of October 2008, the first 9.25-year cycle formed in March 
2020, 11 years and five months into the cycle. The first 9.25-year phases of the prior two 18.5-year 
cycles were also longer in length and were followed by shorter second-phase cycles. They were 
both just under 11 years in length in the first phase and were followed by shorter 7- to 9-year cycles. 
Therefore, if the next 9.25-year cycle is also shorter, it will be due in December 2027 +/– 14 months, 
as described above. 
The 9.25-year cycle tends to break down into the 4-year half-cycle (48-month cycle), as well as 
a 26-month (111-week) half-cycle, which is also often exhibited. Therefore, we are in the final 4-year 
phase of the greater 9.25-year and 18.5-year cycles, which commenced in October 2023 at 20.85. 
At the time of writing in early November 2025, we are in the 25th month of the new 26-month 
cycle, which has turned parabolic. The 26-month half-cycle within the greater 4-year cycle has a 
range of July 2025 to May 2026. It is likely to form within a three-month orb of the Saturn–Neptune 
conjunction, testing the 56-week moving average. If the high of 54.42 holds as the 26-month cycle 
crest, the price target for the trough is 37.64 +/– 3.97. Therefore, my bias is that the 26-month cycle 
trough has not formed as of this writing. Once it does, I expect a corrective rally, but my bias is that 
it will not take out the high that is forming in November 2025. 
124

--- PAGE 129 ---
While we are clearly in a bullish 4-year cycle and still have the second phase of this cycle to play 
out, I would expect the final 26-month cycle to turn bearish as we approach the end of the longer-term 
18.5-year cycle. It is worth pointing out that shorter cycles are susceptible to distortions (contraction 
or expansion) when a longer-term cycle is forming. Therefore, be prepared to start building long 
positions if we begin hitting the 18.5-year cycle price targets before entering the normal range for the 
26-month cycle. 
GEOCOSMICS 
The Moon’s North Node has a correlation with forming highs as it transits Aries–Pisces, followed 
by a sharp decline as it transits Aquarius. It began its transit of Aries in July 2023 and will complete 
its transit of Pisces in August 2026. Therefore, the long-term cycle trough is likely to form as the 
Node transits Aquarius from August 2026 until March 2028. Note that this period overlaps with the 
refined date range for the contracted 9.25-year and 18.5-year cycle lows of December 2027 +/– 14 
months. The refined date range is October 2026–March 2028. 
As noted last year: “Jupiter, the planet of growth and expansion, will be transiting Cancer, the 
sign associated with Silver, from June 6, 2025, to June 30, 2026. This transit could provide a cata -
lyst for the 9.25-year [cycle] crest or even a new ATH.” I think we are now seeing the full impact 
of this transit, and by the time we approach the Saturn–Neptune conjunction in February 2026 and 
the Jupiter–Pluto opposition in July 2026, Silver is likely to come under bearish pressure. Perhaps 
the 26-month cycle trough will form within the orb of the Saturn–Neptune conjunction, and the cor-
rective rally will unfold under the Jupiter–Pluto opposition, before a major sell-off. However, both 
signatures have historically been bearish for Silver, so perhaps we will get a sharp sell-off into the 
midpoint around April–May. 
A shorter-term astrological correlation to note is the transit of Venus. This signature applies only 
to short-term aggressive trading of the major cycles or phases within the primary cycle. We look for a 
trading-cycle trough to form when Venus is in Libra, which is typically followed by a 15.8% rally as 
125

--- PAGE 130 ---
Venus enters Scorpio. We also look for a trading cycle crest to form when Venus is in Pisces–Aries, 
followed by a 17.8% decline as Venus transits Taurus. 
Venus’s next transit of Pisces and Aries will occur from February 10 to March 30, 2026. Venus’s 
next transit of Libra will take place from August 6 to December 4, 2026 (longer than prior transits, as 
Venus will turn retrograde in Scorpio on October 3 and then station direct in Libra on November 14). 
The Venus retrograde will make it difficult to trade the Libra–Scorpio transit. The last time this occurred 
was in 2018, when Silver made a trough on both transits of Libra. It is also worth noting that the Novem-
ber 14 direct station will coincide with Mercury’s direct station. This also happened in April 2025 and 
resulted in a sharp sell-off and reversal, so we may see a similar pattern in November 2026. 
CONCLUSIONS 
Last year’s Forecast 2025 book concluded: “The technical and fundamental picture remains 
strong for Silver, which could even record a new ATH at 53.06 +/– 5.27 within 3 months of the Sat -
urn–Neptune conjunction on February 20, 2026, before a sharp sell-off into 2027. As we saw in the 
previous 18.5-year cycle, the crest formed in March 2008, and the cycle culminated 7 months later in 
October after a 61% decline.” At the time of writing this report, Silver has just formed a new ATH 
on November 13 at 54.42. If this were not the 18.5-year cycle crest, I would expect it to form soon 
within the price target provided, and for it to be followed by a sharp move down. 
Of course, we never see a straight move down, and there is an intermediate 26-month cycle low 
due, from which I expect a corrective rally. While it is not my bias, Silver is very volatile, and we may 
see the rally retest the high currently being formed. The final phase of the 18.5-year cycle has turned 
parabolic, so I cannot completely rule this scenario out. However, since we are in the final 26-month, 
4-year, and 9.25-year phases of the 18.5-year cycle, the greater probability is that we will see only a 
corrective rally with left translation, as the 26-month cycle turns bearish into 2026–2027. 
Therefore, the price target for the 26-month cycle trough is 37.64 +/– 3.97, and it should form 
between July 2025 and May 2026. Once the trough has formed, I would expect a 38.2% to 61.8% 
rally to the 26-month cycle crest two to five months later. I cannot provide a price target for this 
rally until the 26-month cycle trough has formed. From there, I would expect a two- or three-phased 
decline into the 18.5-year cycle trough at either 31.41 +/– 5.43 or a more severe decline toward 16.24 
+/– 4.51 at any point over the next three years. 
THREE-STAR CRITICAL REVERSAL DATES FOR 2026—GOLD AND SILVER 
The CRDs for Silver are the same as the dates given for Gold at the end of its chapter. You may 
also use the dates given at the end of the DJIA for both Gold and Silver when they differ. In many 
cases, several markets will reverse on the dates given at the end of the chapter on the DJIA. 
126

--- PAGE 131 ---
T-NOTES LINING UP FOR A 6-YEAR CYCLE CREST IN 2026 
by Gianni Di Poce, MMA Analyst 
T-Notes Cycles Start/Progress as of 1/1/26 Next Due 
18-year October 2018, 8 years 2033–2039 
6-year October 2023, 3 years 2028–2030 
29-month October 2023, 27 months August 2025–October 2026 
50-week January 2025, 51 weeks October 2025–April 2026 
REVIEW 
T-Notes hit their lows of the year early in 2025, on January 13 at 107/06. This was a 50-week 
cycle low and set the stage for rising prices for the remainder of the year. The low was also significant 
because it confirmed the October 2023 low at 105/15.5 as the 6-year cycle bottom. As of this writing 
in November 2025, T-Notes are making new highs for the year above 114/00. However, prices have 
not taken out the 2024 high of 115/23.5 from September of that year. Thus, 2025 could turn out to be 
an “inside year” for T-Notes, in which the previous year’s high and low are not surpassed. 
The conclusion section of Forecast 2025 stated, “Our preferred outlook for 2025 is centered 
around a 6-year cycle trough being complete in October 2023. The 6-year cycle is still in its first 
29-month phase, but since the greater 18-year cycle has turned bearish, there is a strong chance 
that the rally in T-Notes from the October 2023 low ends this year. Although T-Notes satisfied the 
upside target for 2024 in the 114/25–116/20 range by rallying as high as 115/23.5 on September 11, 
the duration of the rally was not long enough to qualify as a 6-year cycle crest. The sell-off that fol -
lowed from this September 11 crest is due to the 9–15 month cycle coming due, and it calls for a low 
no later than January 2025. This scenario would obviously be nullified if prices took out their low 
from October 2023 at 105/10.5… Assuming T-Notes are in a newer 6-year cycle from October 2023, 
another retest of the 114/25–116/20 range is in the cards for 2025. But it’ s also possible that high is 
exceeded, and that T-Notes could rally as high as 122/00–124/00 in that time band between April and 
October 2025. In fact, this upside target is supported by previous rallies in 6-year cycles. However, 
it’ s worth noting that most of the historical instances of rallies in 6-year cycles occurred during the 
secular bull market in T-Notes from 1982 to 2020. Thus, the historical cases may not prove to be as 
accurate as they once were, since T-Notes are in a long-term bear market now per the 18-year cycle 
turning bearish.” 
T-Notes still have not tested the 114/25–116/20 range, which is what I want to see before a 6-year 
cycle crest is complete. This means there could be higher prices or lower interest rates in 2026 before 
a continuation of the bearish 18-year cycle takes hold. 
The Federal Reserve also paused its rate cuts from December 2024 to September 2025. The 
central bank has resumed its rate cuts, and the market currently expects additional easing to continue 
well into 2026. This provides a macroeconomic backdrop for T-Notes to continue rallying, at least 
until inflationary pressures begin to increase again. Remember that rate cuts mean money printing, 
127

--- PAGE 132 ---
and, at some point, the return of inflation will coincide with another long-term cycle crest in T-Notes. 
Inflation typically leads to higher interest rates, and T-Note prices move inversely to interest rates. In 
other words, inflation is bearish for T-Notes. 
THE 18-YEAR CYCLE 
2026 marks the eighth year of the 18-year cycle in T-Notes, measured from the October 2018 low 
at 117/13. This long-term cycle typically lasts 15–21 years, so we are not looking for a trough until 
2033–2039, unless there is a case of cyclical contraction. This also implies that interest rates would 
continue to climb for the next 7–13 years at least. 
This is a bearish 18-year cycle because prices took out the low that began the cycle in October 
2018. Additionally, the crest was formed in March 2020, which was only the second year of the cycle. 
When cycle crests occur in the first half of a cycle, the cycle is considered bearish. We expect the low-
est price of the cycle to occur at its end. This bearish 18-year cycle continues to hang over the T-Note 
market and points to additional inflation problems until the long-term cycle bottoms. 
THE 6-YEAR CYCLE 
The 18-year cycle breaks down into three 6-year cycles. The newer 6-year cycle scenario was 
confirmed in 2025, as prices never broke below the October 2023 low, and we are now beyond the 
5- to 7-year orb from the October 2018 long-term cycle low. Thus, 2026 will begin the third year of 
the second 6-year cycle phase within the greater 18-year cycle, which is bearish. 
This 6-year cycle is the most important one for 2026 because the odds favor a 6-year cycle crest 
forming this year—especially if it did not already occur in September 2024. My bias is that the 6-year 
cycle crest is not complete yet, because the September 2024 high occurred only 11 months after the 
October 2023 low. Although a bearish 6-year cycle is expected overall, a bullish first phase of the 
cycle is still anticipated. More on this in the next section. 
Forecast 2025 stated, “Prices didn’t quite reach our upside objective for a 6-year cycle crest, 
which supports the idea that new highs could yet be on the horizon for 2025. Not to mention, the 
128

--- PAGE 133 ---
historical length of rallies for 6-year cycles in T-Notes has always lasted at least 18 months. This 
means that if October 2023 was truly the 6-year cycle trough, we wouldn’t look for the 6-year cycle 
crest before April 2025. Plus, the phase breakdown of the 6-year cycle suggests that there is still time 
left in this rally in T-Notes, assuming it is a newer 6-year cycle.” 
This supports the idea that a 6-year cycle crest will form in 2026. Remember that bearish cycles 
spend more time declining than advancing, so a 6-year cycle crest beyond 2026 would not align with 
a bearish 6-year cycle. The next 6-year cycle trough is not expected until 2028–2030, so the antici -
pated crest this year sets T-Notes up for another multi-year decline. New lows beneath the October 
2023 low at 105/10.5 are also anticipated for this cycle’s bottom. 
THE 29-MONTH CYCLE 
The 6-year cycle then breaks down into two or three 29-month cycles. The duration of the 6-year 
cycle determines whether there will be two or three 29-month cycle phases. Most 29-month cycles last 
between 22 and 36 months, and since January 2026 begins the 27th month from October 2023, T-Notes 
are already within the time band for a 29-month cycle trough. It is only the crest that still needs to be 
confirmed. Based on historical metrics, the 29-month cycle low is expected no later than October 2026. 
With the 6-year cycle bottom in October 2023, the 29-month cycle was reset as well. Forecast 
2025 stated, “T-Notes are still in their first 29-month phase within the 6-year cycle, and as a rule, the 
first phase of every cycle is bullish. Historically, the majority of 29-month cycles have rallied for at 
least 9–27 months. The September 11, 2024, high would fall into this range for a 29-month cycle high, 
although it would be a bit early from a 6-year cycle standpoint, and, as a rule, the longer-term cycles 
overpower the shorter ones. Plus, given that the first phases are usually bullish, it would be prefer -
able to see it rally at least past the halfway mark of the cycle, say 15–16 months. This would call for 
a high as soon as January or February 2025, but, given the current technical picture of T-Notes, it is 
rather unrealistic. Thus, it would still be ideal for T-Notes to rally into April 2025 or beyond from a 
29-month cycle standpoint.” 
T-Notes never hit a new 29-month cycle high in 2025, although prices are not far from exceeding 
the September 2024 crest at 115/23.5. There is still enough time in the 29-month cycle for new highs 
in 2026, although this supports the idea of a crest forming in the first half of the year. 
The 29-month cycle crest is lining up to coincide with the greater 6-year cycle crest. To narrow 
down the timeframe for a high even further, the 29-month cycle is broken down into two or three 
50-week cycles that typically last 9–15 months. T-Notes began 2025 with a 50-week cycle trough on 
January 13, 2025, at 107/06. In theory, a 50-week cycle low could unfold before the start of 2026, but 
if not, then the cycle bottom would be expected no later than April 2026, as the beginning of the year 
corresponds to the 51st week, or 12th month, of this cycle. 
T-Notes are still in the second 50-week cycle phase within the greater 29-month cycle. In theory, 
a third phase could unfold in 2026 that aligns with the greater 29-month and 6-year cycle crests. This 
is a wild card for the cycle scenarios in T-Notes going into 2026. 
GEOCOSMICS 
As of this writing in November 2025, the high for T-Notes occurred near several key outer-plan-
etary aspects in April. However, there is still a chance that new highs could form before the calendar 
year ends. Forecast 2025 stated, “Looking ahead into 2025, the most notable observation to be had 
129

--- PAGE 134 ---
is a sign change of every outer planet within the year. Of course, Pluto will already be in Aquarius 
for good, but we’ll see Jupiter ingress into Cancer on June 9, Saturn ingress into Aries on May 24, 
Uranus ingress into Gemini on July 7, and Neptune ingress into Aries on March 30”. 
The analysis went on to state, “But it goes even further than these outer-planetary ingresses. Aside 
from the Jupiter–Saturn square and a square between Jupiter and Neptune on June 18, there are a 
few soft aspects between outer planets that could actually signal comfort, even if temporary, for the 
economy. Saturn is in sextile with Uranus on April 4 and August 11, while Uranus is in sextile with 
Neptune on August 28 and November 20. Interestingly, each of these sextile signatures occurs with the 
respective planets in different signs. The April 4 sextile between Saturn and Uranus will have Saturn 
in Pisces and Uranus in Taurus, while the August 11 sextile will have Saturn in Aries and Uranus in 
Gemini. The August 28 sextile between Uranus and Neptune has Uranus in Gemini and Neptune in 
Aries, but the November 20 sextile has Uranus in Taurus and Neptune in Pisces. This happens because 
of the retrograde motions that are going to take all of these outer planets back into their previous signs, 
except Jupiter and Pluto. Saturn retrogrades back into Pisces on September 1, Uranus retrogrades back 
into Taurus on November 7, and Neptune retrogrades back into Pisces on October 22.” 
It was actually near the sextile between Saturn and Uranus on April 4 that T-Notes completed their 
high of the year. There was also the Jupiter–Saturn square, whose central time band was in effect until 
June 2025. The second of three passages occurred on December 24, 2024, just a couple of weeks before 
the low of the year in T-Notes. It is not my view, however, that either of these highs or lows represented 
significant long-term cycle crests. The January 2025 low was, however, a 50-week trough. 
From an outer-planetary standpoint, 2026 is the sequel year to the initial ingresses that occurred in 
2025. Pluto has already been in Aquarius, but 2026 will see Saturn definitively ingress into Aries for 2.5 
years on February 13, Uranus definitively ingresses into Gemini for 7 years on April 25, and Neptune 
ingresses into Aries for 14 years on January 26. Interestingly, 2026 begins with another sextile between 
Saturn and Uranus on January 20. This is the same aspect that coincided with the 50-week bottom in Janu-
ary 2025. It cannot be ruled out that another 50-week cycle trough occurs in either January or February, 
but the primary geocosmic focus for 2026 surrounds the timing of a potential 6-year cycle crest in T-Notes. 
Based on the cycle counts discussed in the previous section, the timing for a 6-year cycle crest 
appears to favor the first or second quarter of 2026. It is worth noting that all of the outer-planetary 
ingresses will take place in the first half of 2026, including Jupiter’s ingress into Leo on June 30. 
Outer-planetary ingresses tend to correspond with larger psychological shifts among market partici -
pants, which aligns well with the prospect of a long-term cycle crest in T-Notes. 
There is also a sextile between Saturn and Pluto on March 28. Although sextiles are usually not 
the preferred aspect for marking long-term market reversals, this one could be especially important 
because of the Saturn–Pluto synodic cycle. Remember that the long-term bull market in bonds began 
roughly one year before the Saturn–Pluto conjunction of 1982 and then ended within two months of 
the Saturn–Pluto conjunction of January 2020. 
However, there are three outer-planetary aspects taking place in July 2026 that are shaping up 
to be very important for the bond market. The first is the Uranus–Pluto trine on July 18. Then, two 
days later, on July 20, there is an opposition between Jupiter and Pluto. That same day, there is also a 
trine between Jupiter and Neptune. The Uranus–Pluto trine will kick off the central time band of this 
signature, which will remain in effect until May 2028. 
130

--- PAGE 135 ---
The Uranus–Pluto synodic cycle is important for T-Notes as well, because the square signature 
between 2012 and 2015 coincided with “QE-3” from the Fed. Now that another signature is coming 
into effect, could the central bank initiate a new form of unconventional monetary policy? For this to 
occur, some sort of crisis in the bond market would likely need to play out, and, naturally, a long-term 
cycle crest would have to form. Uranus rules innovation, and Pluto rules debt. But both Jupiter and 
Neptune—planets that rule inflation—are involved here as well. Let’s not forget that Neptune in fire 
signs has historically been inflationary, too. 
The combination of the trine between Jupiter and Neptune and the opposition between Jupiter 
and Pluto increases the probability of a massive expansion in inflation expectations. This would be 
bearish for T-Notes and would lead to a rise in interest rates. 
But the wild card in this case is the Uranus–Pluto trine. Although it is not my bias that the Fed 
would intervene to stop a rise in interest rates this early in the 6-year cycle, at some point the central 
bank could step in with a surprising program—likely in the form of yield curve control—to stem the 
rise in interest rates. Uranus trine Pluto is the ideal aspect for such an intervention to occur, and it is 
my expectation that this will happen during the central time band between July 2026 and May 2028. 
It is not my view that it will occur in 2026, although it may be possible toward the end of the year if 
inflationary pressures get out of control too quickly. 
It is also important to tie in some transits to the Federal Reserve’s natal chart for clues in the 
T-Note market. The natal chart used for this analysis is set for December 23, 1913, at 6:02 p.m. in the 
Capitol Building in Washington, D.C. Forecast 2025 stated, “Note that the third and final Jupiter– 
Saturn square will hit the Fed’ s natal Pluto at zero degrees Cancer. Jupiter will be conjunct Pluto, 
while Saturn is square Pluto. Pluto is known as the “Four D Planet” (debts, downgrades, defaults, 
and deficits), and it rules debt, so it’ s obviously a very important planet for an entity that determines 
the price of that debt via interest rates. Jupiter conjunct Pluto could be one of two things. It could 
signal continued easing on behalf of the Fed, since Jupiter has an affinity towards growth, but it 
could also mean an oversupply of debt. In this scenario, the Fed may actually have to slow down on 
interest rate cuts.” 
Interestingly, the Fed did pause in its rate cuts, but it occurred after the second Jupiter–Saturn 
square rather than the final one in June 2025, when Jupiter was on the Fed’s natal Pluto. The Fed then 
resumed rate cuts with Jupiter near its ascendant in September 2025. Due to Jupiter’s retrograde, two 
more conjunctions will take place to the Fed’s ascendant in Cancer: the first on January 25, 2026, and 
the second on April 24, 2026. 
My view is that rate cuts will continue beyond April 24, at least into Jupiter’s opposition to 
the Fed’s natal Uranus at 5 degrees Aquarius. This will occur after Jupiter ingresses into Leo, and 
it will unfold around the same time that transiting Pluto comes within orb of a conjunction to the 
Fed’s natal Uranus. 
This combination of planetary aspects seems to be setting up a showdown over control of the 
Fed. The natal Uranus in Aquarius represents the central bank’s strong sense of independence, and 
it looks to be coming under a rather dramatic (Jupiter) attempt at coercion (Pluto) beginning in the 
second half of 2026. It is worth noting that Jerome Powell’s term as Fed Chair is set to end in May 
2026 as well, although he is scheduled to stay on as a governor until 2028. 
131

--- PAGE 136 ---
This geocosmic setup may also involve Scott Bessent’s natal Saturn at six degrees of Aquarius 
(born August 21, 1962; birth time unknown), which is conjunct the Federal Reserve’s natal Uranus. 
Combined with transiting Pluto conjunct the Fed’s natal Uranus, this suggests that the Treasury Sec-
retary could begin to have a major influence on the Fed’s policy decisions. There have already been 
rumors of Bessent being appointed Fed Chair, but the current law prohibits one person from holding 
both positions at the same time. Regardless, the central bank’s independence appears to be under real 
threat in 2026—and it does not end with these aspects, either. 
The conjunction between Saturn and Neptune on February 20, 2026, at zero degrees Aries will 
be conjunct the central bank’s midheaven and square its Sun. This spells an identity crisis and raises 
questions surrounding its authority. Authoritative deception is in play here, potentially arising from 
faulty data being sent its way, which could undermine its policy decisions. This already happened in 
2025, when more than 900,000 jobs magically disappeared, and the Fed realized it was behind the 
curve on cutting rates. Something similar could occur in 2026, but perhaps involving understated 
inflation data that encourages the central bank to continue cutting rates. 
CONCLUSION 
T-Notes are shaping up for additional upside in 2026 now that the newer 6-year cycle scenario 
from October 2023 has been confirmed. My preferred outlook is for prices to rally into a 6-year cycle 
crest in the 121/00–123/00 range sometime between April and August 2026. Keep in mind that this 
will coincide with a 29-month cycle crest as well. The big question is whether another 50-week cycle 
will begin before the 29-month cycle tops out, as there can be two or three 50-week cycles within a 
29-month cycle, depending on the cycle’s length. 
The highs from 2025, 2024, and 2023 are expected to be exceeded in 2026. Since a 29-month 
cycle trough is due by October, the 6-year cycle crest is not likely to produce an immediate sharp 
pullback. This means that at some point, there will be a strong, tradable bounce in T-Notes in 2026. 
However, a significant secondary lower high beneath the high of the year is a potential scenario in 
the fourth quarter of 2026. 
The geocosmics that begin in 2026—especially the Uranus–Pluto trine—point to a managed-
style decline in the T-Note prices over the coming years. Keep in mind that the time band for a 6-year 
cycle trough begins in 2028 and that the central time band of the Uranus–Pluto trine lasts into May 
2028. Since the greater 18-year cycle is bearish, we expect the 6-year cycle phase to record its lowest 
price at the end of its cycle. This means a drop to 105/00–105/10 should be in order, but that is not in 
the cards for 2026, unless we see an expanded 5- to 7-year cycle that takes prices to new lows. This 
is not our bias, however. 
Instead, my preferred scenario is to see T-Notes form a 50-week cycle crest in the 114/25–116/20 
range sometime in January or February, followed by a 50-week cycle trough in February or March. 
Then prices would commence another rally into a 29-month and 6-year crest by August. The target 
is as high as 121/00–123/00. A drop into a 29-month cycle low could then occur, with prices falling 
back into the 114/25–116/20 zone. After that, another rally can occur into year-end, but it will not 
take out the 6-year cycle crest. My expectation is for the 29-month cycle that follows the current one 
to be bearish. 
132

--- PAGE 137 ---
The threat against the Fed’s independence may not actually work out as intended. In theory, the 
attempted takeover may begin very late in 2026, after rising rates and inflation start to become a 
problem again. The objective appears to be to artificially peg interest rates below the prevailing rate 
of inflation in order to devalue the debt. Structural issues in the bond market could easily continue 
into the mid-2030s, which lines up with an 18-year cycle bottom. There will also be an opposition 
between Saturn and Pluto around that time, and Neptune will be in the later degrees of Aries. All in 
all, this is a bond market that continues to price in default risk and inflation risk—mainly from gov -
ernments versus private corporations, which may actually prove to offer a safer haven compared with 
government bonds going forward. 
THREE-STAR CRITICAL REVERSAL DATES FOR 2026—T-NOTES 
The following is a list of three-star geocosmic critical reversal dates (CRDs) used in MMA’s 
market timing calculations. They are most valid when a market is also in the time band for a primary, 
half-primary, or major cycle crest or trough, but may apply to secondary highs or lows, too, that are 
tradeable. Allow a range of three trading days (sometimes as much as six) to these dates for a reversal. 
Also, use the dates given for CRDs in stocks as well. Both sets will apply to one another, and as you 
see, there will be overlap in many cases between the two lists of CRDs. 
January 16–19 
February 6–9 
April 1 
April 24–27 
May 22–25 
July 20 (allow one week) 
August 11 
August 28–31 
September 14 
October 2–5 
November 13–16 
December 11–14 (allow one week) 
133

--- PAGE 138 ---
CURRENCY MARKETS IN 2026 
Currency markets were very active in 2025. The U.S. Dollar was weak, while the star performer 
was the Swiss Franc. Everyone wanted the safety of the neutral Swiss Franc, even though its central 
bank cut its interest rate to 0% to stop its appreciation. 
The decline in the U.S. Dollar reflected the historical pattern of previous incoming Republican 
administrations in the White House. A lower dollar benefits international trade for U.S. corporations, 
which is also a reason why the Swiss central bank didn’t want its currency to appreciate so much. 
Japan was another reality altogether, as will be discussed in the chapters to follow. 
CRITICAL REVERSAL DATES FOR CURRENCIES IN 2026 
Unlike other chapters, we will list the critical reversal dates (CRDs) for currencies at the start of 
this chapter so readers do not have to scroll through all four currencies to find them. 
The following is the list of three-star geocosmic critical reversal dates (CRDs) used in MMA’s 
market timing calculations for currencies, and especially for the Euro. They are most valid when a 
currency is also in the time band for a primary, half-primary, or major cycle crest or trough, but may 
also apply to tradeable secondary highs or lows. Allow a range of three trading days (sometimes as 
much as six) to these dates for a reversal. Also, use the dates given for CRDs in stocks as well. Both 
sets will apply to one another, and as you see, there will be overlap in many cases between the two 
lists of CRDs. 
January 16–19 
February 6–9 
February 20–23 
March 20–23 
April 24–27 
May 22–25 
July 3–6 
July 21 (allow one week) 
August 14–17 
August 28–31 
September 11–14 
October 7–8 (allow one week) 
December 7 
134

--- PAGE 139 ---
THE U.S. DOLLAR INDEX (DXY) 
by Ulric Aspegren, MMA Analyst 
REVIEW 
In mid-November 2024, when the previous yearly U.S. Dollar report was completed, the green -
back was rising from the September 27, 2024, low at 100.15 USD (9). Last year’s Forecast 2025 
book detailed: “The hard nut to crack question is: did the greater cycle that started in 2008 (4) end in 
2021(8) after 12.8 years, or are we 16.6 years into an older 16-year greater cycle that also originated 
in 2008? The former could set up a long-term bullish run for the U.S. Dollar Index, while the latter 
would be very bearish for the greenback, as the 16-year cycle would be ripe to head lower into its 
greater cycle abyss.” 
Looking back on the last twelve months, the Dollar succeeded in ascending a respectable 10% 
from the September 2024 low (9) to 110.17 on January 13, 2025 (I), but then ran completely out of 
steam. So far, a total descent of 12.7% for nine long months has followed, resulting in a low on Sep-
tember 17 at 96.21 (10). The greenback has managed to regain 4.30%, reaching 100.36 on November 
5. Could the September 2025 low have been the long-term cycle bottom for the U.S. Dollar Index, or 
is there more bearishness to come? The DXY closed on November 14, 2025, at 99.299 USD. 
Preferred Cycle (Start) Progress Next event 
16-year (Mar 2008) 
5.2-year (Jan 2021) 
36-month (Jul 2023) 
14-month (Sep 2024) 
17.6 years 
4.9 years 
28 months 
13.5 months 
Combined narrowed down 
long-term cycle trough expected 
January–June 2026. 
THE LONG-TERM CYCLES IN THE U.S. DOLLAR INDEX 
As of this writing in mid-November 2025, it is still a challenge to etch out the long-term outlook. 
We got a greater cycle start at the 2008 low (4), at 70.70. If this cycle is still operational, then we are 
17.6 years into it and heading south towards its greater cycle bottom. Historically, this is clearly longer 
than the two previous 13.9- and 15.5-year cycles, which could mean that the Dollar is instead 4 years 
and change into a new, greater cycle that commenced in January 2021, at 89.20 (8). If this is true, then 
the greenback is on a long-term bullish path, on the way towards a greater cycle crest, expected in about 
three years’ time. However, as we only have two samples to compare with, we just cannot forge a reli-
able long-term outlook with such a small sample size. We have to search elsewhere for clues. 
THE POLITICAL CYCLE IN THE U.S. DOLLAR 
The previous Forecast 2025 book stated: “Under a Democrat administration, the Dollar tends 
to rally into the 16-year cycle crest. Under a Republican, it tends to fall into the 16-year cycle low. 
Hence, the political cycle in the U.S. Dollar does not correspond with a greater cycle trough in 2021 
(8), as the Democrats were in the White House. However, the political cycle does align with a 16-year 
greater cycle crest established in 2022 (H), since the Democrats were still in control of the presi -
dency. Now that the Republicans have overtaken the Oval Office, it would indicate, according to the 
political cycle, that the U.S. Dollar Index is heading towards a 16-year cycle trough. My preferred 
outlook is therefore bearish.” 
135

--- PAGE 140 ---
THE 5.2-YEAR LONG-TERM CYCLE IN THE U.S. DOLLAR 
The 16-year cycle splits in the bearish long-term scenario into three 5.2-year cycles. The prices 
are here 4.8 years into the third 5.2-year cycle, which started on January 6, 2021, at 89.20 (8). Both 
the final 5.2-year and the 16-year cycle crests were established together on September 28, 2022, at 
114.78 (H). Time-wise, the future 5.2-year cycle low, which should coincide with the 16-year cycle 
trough, is projected to unfold sometime between March 2025 and March 2027 with its one-year orb. 
Hence, we are now within the bottoming time frame for the long-term cycle trough. 
As the expectation is that this final 5.2-year cycle should be bearish, we will use its historical 
bearish price declines to estimate the price target for its forthcoming long-term cycle low. The histori-
cal bearish descents from the previous 5.2-year cycle crests are between 25–48% (using 75% of the 
cases), producing a price target span of 60–87 USD. We will use this span as the overall price target 
range for the 16-year cycle trough. 
Consequently, the September 17, 2025, low, at 96.21 (10), appears to be too shallow for a greater 
cycle low. Hence, my bias is that the greenback will continue lower. 
U.S. DOLLAR INDEX Preferred Monthly Chart, as of November 14, 2025 
THE 36-MONTH LONG-TERM CYCLE IN THE U.S. DOLLAR 
The 5.2-year cycle breaks down most of the time into two 36-month cycles. We are now 28 
months into the second 36-month cycle that started on July 14, 2023, at 99.58 (9). The crest of the 
current 36-month cycle did occur on January 30, 2025, at 110.17 (I). This second 36-month cycle, 
with its 6-month orb, is due to bottom out sometime between January 2026 and January 2027. As this 
final 36-month cycle is anticipated to end simultaneously with the completion of the current 5.2-year 
cycle, we can, via overlapping, concentrate the timing for the forthcoming 16-year cycle trough, to 
January 2026–January 2027 as well. 
Historically, prices have dropped 19–23% when the 36-month cycles have been bearish. We can 
therefore estimate the price target range for the upcoming bearish 36-month cycle low to 84–89 USD. 
Hence, by overlapping with the overall price target for the 16-year cycle low, we obtain an 84–87 
USD span as one price area where the upcoming long-term cycle low could occur. 
136

--- PAGE 141 ---
Once the 16-year cycle trough has bottomed out, prices are expected to rise to a bullish 36-month 
cycle crest, forecasted to take place after 16 to 32 months, at an increase of 16–29%. 
THE 14-MONTH INTERMEDIATE-TERM CYCLE IN THE U.S. DOLLAR INDEX 
The 36-month long-term cycle can be split into either three 45-week (10-month) cycles or two 
14-month cycles, or a combination of both. The best fit at this time is that the first 14-month interme-
diate-term cycle was completed on September 27, 2024, at 100.15, as it was 14 months away from 
the July 2023 low. 
The current 36-month cycle should thus be in its second and final 14-month cycle. Last year’s 
report stated: “As we are in a bearish long-term scenario, the expectation is that this second 14-month 
cycle should peak out 1.4 to 3.7 months after the September 2024 low. The bearish historical crest 
data generate a time target range of November 8, 2024–January 17, 2025, for the forthcoming 
14-month cycle top. Price-wise, again using the bearish crest data, we obtain a price target range of 
104.62–110.24, which represents a 4.5–10% rise.” The bearish 14-month cycle crest was established 
on January 13, 2025, at 110.17, which was both within the forecasted time and price target spans. 
My preferred view is that we are 13.5 months into the second 14-month cycle. As the Dollar is 
assumed to be in a bearish long-term scenario, the forecast is that prices should now decline into the 
second 14-month cycle low, projected to occur with its 5.5-month orb, sometime between June 2025 
and April 2026. This 14-month cycle bottom is also anticipated to be a 16-year cycle trough, which nar-
rows the time target to January 2026–January 2027. Hence, via additional overlapping, we can further 
concentrate the timing for the 16-year cycle bottom to January 2026–April 2026. This is a very tight 
time gap for a 16-year cycle trough. Hence, let’s not forget that the greater cycle is always in command, 
and the long-term cycle low could, at least potentially, come in at the latest, by March 2027. 
A bearish 14-month cycle low is expected historically to come in at a descent of 10%–22%, 
which computes to 86–99 USD. As a 16-year cycle trough is due to unfold, this decline might be too 
shallow. Nevertheless, we have already estimated a first price target range of 84–87 USD, so we can 
overlap with the 14-month cycle low price objective to further narrow down our target to 86–87 USD. 
When the long-term cycle trough is behind us, the prices should rise to a bullish 14-month cycle crest, 
expected to top out six to eleven months after the low and at an increase of 13–23%. 
GEOCOSMICS 
We have the important Saturn–Neptune conjunction in February 2026. As this planetary pair only 
meets once, we will extend the timing by four months on either side of the conjunction, which produces 
a time frame of October 2025–June 2026. This time target range creates a bit of a problem for us, since 
we just got a low on September 17, at 96.22 (10). Although it is slightly off, time-wise there is still a pos-
sibility that the greater cycle trough occurred on this date, as September 2025 is within the time forecast 
for the 5.2-year cycle low. However, the price decline was only 16.2% from the 114.78 top of September 
2022 (H). Consequently, it is more probable that the 16-year cycle trough is still ahead. 
Now, we have previously carved out a very narrowed down time target range for the 16-year 
cycle bottom to January–April 2026. Hence, the Saturn–Neptune conjunction does not improve this 
slimmed-down time frame. Nevertheless, I think it is wise to extend the timing for the 16-year cycle 
trough to June 2026, incorporating the later timing portion of this planetary pair conjunction. 
137

--- PAGE 142 ---
TECHNICALS 
Last year detailed: “The price action for the last fifteen years has been in a channel defined by 
the two parallel lines (see chart) that started from the 2009 crest (D) and from the 2011 trough (5)… 
A solid signal that the long-term bearish scenario is active would occur if the prices would break sus-
tainably below the lower parallel line, right now, in November 2024, at 100.38, and rising about 0.17 
USD per month. “The prices did indeed break below the lower parallel line in April 2025, supporting 
the bearish outlook. If the prices were to overtake this line, right now at 102.85 and rising, it would 
increase the probability that either the 16-year cycle trough took place in 2021(8) or in September 
2025 (10). 
The next support area is the long-term line that joins the crests of 2001 (B) and 2017 (F). It is 
currently at 93.85 and falling about 0.09 USD per month. If the prices decline sustainably below this 
significant support line (in place now for 24 years), it will send a second forceful signal that the prices 
are heading to the greater cycle trough. Although the estimated price target for the forthcoming long-
term cycle low suggests prices should head below this line, we must still be on the alert that this line 
could be where the 16-year cycle trough occurs. 
Finally, we have a support line, passing through the lows 4 & 5. It is at this time at 81.57 and 
rising about 0.050 USD per month. If the U.S. Dollar Index falls below the 84–87 level, then this is a 
potential reversal zone for the upcoming 16-year cycle trough. The ideal setup would be if the prices 
could temporarily break below this important support line, cementing the greater cycle low. On the 
other hand, as it is getting very late in the greater cycle, there might not be enough time to reach this 
lowest line. 
BIAS 
Last year, even though the prices were rising from the September 2024 low (9), my bias was 
bearish for the Dollar, a judgment that was only hanging in the balance on the political cycle. There 
were no other clues. This bearish bias strengthened in April 2025, when the prices broke below the 
lower parallel line. 
The final concern is whether the September 17, 2025, low at 96.21 (10) could have been the 
16-year cycle trough. It was within its time target span, but as it was not within the estimated price 
target range, I am biased that the greenback is heading lower and thus that the 16-year cycle trough 
is still ahead. 
Nevertheless, if, against my bias, the prices would now instead rise, overtaking, at first, the 
lower parallel line, then the Dollar could be in a long-term bullish trend from a greater cycle trough, 
cemented in January 2021, or even in September 2025. This bullish outlook would be powerfully 
reinforced if the previous 14-month cycle crest, established on January 13, 2025, at 110.17 (I), is sur-
passed, as it would confirm that a new 14-month cycle is in a bullish trend. However, it is only when 
the September 2022 crest, at 114.78 (H), is overtaken that we would have the confirmation that the 
long-term bullish alternative is active. 
138

--- PAGE 143 ---
U.S. DOLLAR/YEN 
by Gianni Di Poce, MMA Analyst 
REVIEW 
The Dollar/Yen had an inside year in 2025. The high of the year occurred early in the year, on 
January 10 at 158.87, while the low of the year occurred on April 22, 2025, at 139.86. This was below 
the high of 2024 but above the low of 2024 as well. Throughout most of the year, the Bank of Japan 
(BOJ) allowed interest rates on Japanese government bonds (JGBs) to rise. This caused some weak-
ness in the Dollar/Yen exchange rate, but with the election of Sanae Takaichi in 2025, markets are 
starting to price in a return to “Abenomics” policies. These economic policies centered on weakening 
the Japanese Yen in order to manage the country’s debt load. This creates a backdrop for potential 
strength in the Dollar/Yen in 2025, and it is supported by the long-term cycle situation as well. 
Last year’s Conclusion section stated, “The weight of the evidence of the Dollar/Yen being in a 
new 4.125-year cycle is very compelling. The biggest question for the Dollar/Yen now, given its late-
ness of the 16.5-year cycle, is whether it can go on to make new cycle and multi-decade highs. Given 
the geocosmic backdrop, our bias is that USD/JPY will retest the 164.00 +/- 2.00 zone and probably 
rally as high as 175.00–177.00. It cannot entirely be ruled out that a 16.5-year cycle crest forms in 
2025 in this zone of 175.00–177.00, but this is not our bias. On the contrary, the geocosmics of 2025 
suggest we’re only getting a preview, due to retrograde motions, of a more profound crisis to come in 
the Dollar/Yen in 2026. Eventually, we could see the Dollar/Yen rally as high as 220.00–225.00, but 
probably not in 2025. This may coincide with the greater long-term 16.5-year cycle.” 
While the Dollar/Yen did not rally up to the target of 175.00–177.00, it held firmly in the 139.00 
+/– 2.00 zone, essentially completing a double bottom to the September 2024 low. This low occurred 
seven months later, and it is not uncommon to see retests of important long-term cycle bottoms 6–22 
months later. It will also be a matter of whether the Bank of Japan reverts to a more accommodative 
monetary policy and stops allowing yields on JGBs to rise. There may be a final attempt at lowering 
yields with the new administration in power. 
THE LONG-TERM CYCLES IN THE DOLLAR/YEN 
The longest cycle to watch in the Dollar/Yen is 16.5 years. The prior low was on October 31, 
2011, at 75.55, and 2026 starts the 15th year of the cycle. This long-term cycle points to a low around 
August 2028 +/– 3.5 years, so a low is due at any time. But first, the crest for this long-term cycle 
must be confirmed. As it stands, the crest from July 2024 at 161.99 is holding, but there is still a pos-
sibility that USD/JPY can rally one final time before reversing lower. 
Historically, the 16.5-year cycle broke down into phases lasting 5.5 years, or 55–77 months. 
However, in this cycle, a two-phase pattern composed of two 8.25-year cycles appears to have taken 
hold. An 8.25-year cycle trough unfolded in March 2020, making 2026 the sixth year in the 8.25-year 
cycle. This cycle is calling for a low between 2027 and 2029, so in theory, USD/JPY could still hit 
a new cycle high this year before beginning a drop into an 8.25-year cycle low. This 8.25-year cycle 
crest would form together with the 16.5-year cycle crest. 
139

--- PAGE 144 ---
USD/JPY Cycles Start/Progress as of 1/1/26 Next Due 
16.5-year October 2011, 15 years 2025–2031 
8.25-year March 2020, 6 years 2027–2029 
4.125-year September 2024, 2 years 2027–2029 
22.5-month September 2024, 16 months April 2026–December 2026 
There is, however, a slim chance that a 16.5-year cycle bottom occurred in April 2025 with the low 
at 139.86. This is not a very likely scenario, but it is a possible one, especially if the 16.5-year cycle 
broke down into a three-phase pattern with three 5.5-year cycles. The 5.5-year cycle has a range of 55–77 
months, and from the October 2011 low, the June 2016 low was 56 months. If the secondary low of Janu-
ary 2021 is considered with respect to the initial March 2020 low, it occurred 55 months from June 2016. 
Finally, the April 2025 low would be 51 months from January 2021, which is a bit short for a 5.5-year 
cycle trough; however, with a potential 16.5-year cycle bottom looming, it is not uncommon for shorter 
cycles to contract. This scenario is not a high-probability one, but it exists nonetheless. It represents the 
most bullish scenario for USD/JPY , as 2026 could start the first year of a new 16.5-year cycle. 
The 8.25-year cycle is then broken down into two 4.125-year cycle phases. The first 4.125-year 
cycle low within the 8.25-year cycle occurred on September 16, 2024, at 139.56. Forecast 2025 
stated, “It’ s now the final 4.125-year cycle phase within the greater 8.25-year cycle phase, and we’re 
in the second 8.25-year cycle phase within the greater 16.5-year cycle. Thus, we expect this 4.125-
year cycle crest to coincide with the 16.5-year cycle crest too. A rally as high as 175.00-177.00 can-
not be ruled out in 2025. Our bias is for the 164.00 +/- 2.00 zone to be tested, and then, eventually, 
exceeded given the new 4.125-year cycle.” 
It did not rally up to 175.00–177.00 in 2025, but this upside objective remains on the table for 
2026 and beyond. The year 2026 will mark only the second year in the second and final 4.125-year 
cycle. This cycle’s crest will coincide with the greater 8.25-year and 16.5-year cycle crests. 
THE INTERMEDIATE-TERM CYCLES IN THE DOLLAR/YEN 
The 4.125-year cycle breaks down further into either two 22.5-month cycle phases or three 
17-month cycle phases. The 22.5-month cycle represents not only a half-cycle phase of the 4.125-
year cycle, but also one of the three phases of the 5.5-year cycle. The 4.125-year cycle that bottomed 
in September 2024 broke down into a three-phase pattern of 17-month phases. Forecast 2025 stated, 
“The question now is whether this final 4.125-year cycle phase to the greater 8.25-year cycle will 
break down into two 22.5-month or three 17-month cycles. It is still too early to tell, but January 2025 
will begin the 4th month in this new intermediate-term cycle. Since it’ s the first phase of a new 4.125-
year cycle, we anticipate it to be bullish and rally into June or July at least.” 
So far, the high of this first phase of the 4.125-year cycle occurred on January 10, 2025, at 158.87. 
Thus, my expectation is for new cycle highs to follow in 2026, although it is not yet certain what the 
phase breakdown of this cycle will be. January 2026 will start the 16th month from the September 
2024 low, and so if there is going to be a 17-month cycle phase, then a crest could be anticipated 
in the first quarter of 2026 at the latest. A low would be expected no later than April or May 2026. 
However, if there are going to be two 22.5-month cycle phases, USD/JPY could easily rally into the 
back half of 2026. A 22.5-month cycle trough would be due by December 2026, though. Even so, the 
intermediate-term cycles point to more upside for USD/JPY throughout the majority of 2026. 
140

--- PAGE 145 ---
GEOCOSMICS 
There are a plethora of geocosmic setups that continue to warn of problems for the Japanese 
Yen in 2026. In other words, the outlook favors significantly more upside in 2026 and beyond. In all 
likelihood, the crest will be very climactic. The geocosmics in play for 2026 point to a resurgence 
in inflationary pressures, and the setup is shaping up to be bullish for USD/JPY . It begins with the 
conjunction between Saturn and Neptune at zero degrees Aries on February 20, 2026. Throughout 
2025, the loose conjunction between these two planets kept a lid on inflation. Still, as they begin 
to separate in 2026, the restrictive forces of Saturn may no longer serve to contain the inflationary 
nature of Neptune in a fire sign. 
Then there is a series of aspects in July and August that could prove pivotal for debt markets, 
which are directly connected to currency markets. It begins with the trine between Uranus and 
Pluto, an aspect that will remain in effect into 2028. The central time band begins on July 18, 
and then two days later, there is a trine between Jupiter and Neptune, and an opposition between 
Jupiter and Pluto (both on July 20). With Pluto involved here, debt markets must be considered, 
as Pluto rules debt. With Jupiter and Neptune involved, inflation must be considered, as they co-
rule this monetary phenomenon. There is another exact hit of Uranus trine Pluto toward the end 
of 2026 as well, on November 26. Each of these exact trines should be considered “hot spots” for 
a potential intervention in either debt or currency markets, and the Bank of Japan is well known 
for doing this. 
Speaking of Japan’s central bank, these outer-planetary transits should be considered in 
terms of aspects to its natal chart. The central bank’s official website states that it was estab -
lished on October 10, 1882, but the birth time is not provided, so we can only analyze aspects. 
Forecast 2025 stated, “For 2025, there are a few key transits that could compound the Bank of 
Japan’ s woes. On the top of the list is Uranus ingressing into Gemini on July 7. This is because 
Uranus will move into orb of an opposition with the BOJ’ s natal Venus at 2 degrees Sagittarius. 
Granted, there won’t be an exact aspect, as Uranus only makes it to the first degree of Gemini 
before retrograding back into Taurus on November 7. But still, Uranus opposite Venus is a 
141

--- PAGE 146 ---
classical transit for currency collapse or monetary shocks. However, around the same time, Nep -
tune ingressing into Aries will form a trine to the BOJ’ s natal Venus. Thus, the combined forces 
of Uranus and Neptune will be influencing Venus at the same time. Neptune may counteract some 
of the shock associated with Uranus and provide an illusion that all is under control, or it may 
lead to hysteria surrounding the collapse of the Japanese Yen. Keep in mind that it’ s in the first 
phase of a long-term cycle, which is usually when a market is at its most bullish. It’ s unlikely the 
crest of the 4.125-year cycle will occur in 2025, but rather, when the exact aspects to Venus take 
place in 2026.” 
Uranus makes its definitive ingress into Gemini on April 25, and by late June, there will finally be 
an exact opposition to the Bank of Japan’s natal Venus. Thus, I am looking for an acceleration to the 
upside in the value of the Dollar against the Yen throughout the summer of 2026. It is also worth not-
ing that before this final ingress into Gemini takes place, Uranus will be conjunct the natal Pluto of the 
Bank of Japan. 
The central bank allowed interest rates on Japanese government bonds to rise throughout much 
of 2025, and this led to some strength in the Japanese Yen and weakness in the Dollar/Yen exchange 
rate. However, this policy is likely to be abandoned once Uranus moves away from Pluto in late Tau-
rus. This would be consistent with a return to Abenomics-style policies in Japan, which are centered 
around weakness in the Japanese Yen and, therefore, a higher USD/JPY exchange rate. 
There are other transits to consider in the BOJ’s natal chart. Pluto forms an exact square with the 
Bank of Japan’s natal Mars in Scorpio starting in June–July of 2026. Although Mars rules Scorpio, 
Mars square Pluto is a classic signature of conflict. Pluto rules debt and manipulations. Forecast 
2025 stated, “The Bank of Japan may literally be fighting (Mars) to keep their bonds (Pluto) from 
crashing, but in doing so, may lose complete control over the Yen’ s value. It’ s unlikely that this 
conflict will culminate in 2025, but by the end of the year, it will become very obvious that it’ s a 
serious issue.” As of this writing, the Dollar/Yen has not reached this crisis point, but the exact 
square between Pluto and Mars still has not occurred. There are stronger odds of this happening in 
2026 compared with 2025. 
CONCLUSION 
2026 will start only the second year in the second and final 4.125-year cycle phase within the 
greater 8.25-year cycle. The Dollar/Yen is in the second and final 8.25-year cycle phase within 
the greater 16.5-year cycle, of which 2026 starts the 15th year. Thus, the Dollar/Yen is in the late 
stages of multiple long-term cycles, but final phases can go parabolic and take markets to unthink -
able highs. The geocosmic backdrop is present in 2026 for a meteoric rise in the Dollar/Yen to 
occur, between Uranus’s opposition to the Bank of Japan’s Venus and Pluto’s square to the Bank 
of Japan’s Mars. 
My bias is that USD/JPY will retest the 164.00 +/– 2.00 zone early on in 2026 and, in all likeli -
hood, rally as high as 175.00–177.00 at some point during the year. If it cannot test, and preferably 
exceed, the 164.00 +/– 2.00 zone by June, it may be the case that the 16.5-year cycle already formed 
its crest back in 2024, although this is not my preferred outlook. In fact, given the geocosmic back -
drop in the coming years, I could see the Dollar/Yen surge as high as 220.00–225.00, but probably not 
in 2026. This would likely coincide with the greater long-term 16.5-year cycle. 
142

--- PAGE 147 ---
The most important cycle to watch for in terms of a crest and a reversal back lower in the Dollar/ 
Yen in 2026 is the 17-month or 22.5-month cycle. It is still unclear whether the 4.125-year cycle is 
breaking down into a two- or three-phase pattern. A 17-month cycle bottom is most likely by the first 
quarter of 2026, and it is likely to hold above 150.00–152.00. If this level were to break, it would 
increase the odds that the longer-term cycles are topping out. A break below 140.00–142.00 in 2026 
would confirm that the 16.5-year cycle crest has peaked and that the Dollar/Yen could drop as low as 
128.00–130.00, but this is not in my preferred playbook for 2026, especially given the signatures in 
the Bank of Japan’s chart and the inflationary mundane backdrop. Overall, 2026 appears to be a very 
bullish year for the Dollar/Yen as all of the factors are weighed. 
143

--- PAGE 148 ---
THE EURO 
by Ulric Aspegren, MMA Analyst 
REVIEW 
In mid-November 2024, when the Euro report for the upcoming Forecast 2026 book was com-
pleted, the Euro was in freefall. The prices had managed previously to establish a peak at 1.127 USD 
in July 2023 (E), after rising 18% from an important trough at 0.953 USD in September 2022 (5). 
The prices tried to surpass this July 2023 crest, but stalled at 1.121 in September 2024, just below the 
tip of a massive triangle pattern. The situation did not look promising for the Euro, as it had already 
declined 5% from its September 2024 top. At the time, we were in the 25th month since the Septem-
ber 2022 bottom, and the question was: will the bearish trend endure, or is there hope for the bulls? 
Last year’s forecast detailed that the ongoing descent was a normal bullish correction to a 
24-month cycle low, which was due to unfold sometime between April 2024 and March 2025. The 
prices kept falling, but finally reversed in the 28th month, on February 3, 2025, at 1.014 (6). A 
24-month cycle trough was thus cemented within the time target, following an overall 10% decline 
from the 24-month cycle crest in July 2023 (E). 
As forecasted, the prices have since been in a bullish trend, rallying 17.5% so far to 1.1918 as of 
September 25, 2025. However, is this rally a sustainable affair, or is it just a transitory push-up from 
an intermediate-term cycle low before the Euro heads south again? The Euro closed on November 
14, 2025, at 1.162. 
Preferred Cycle (Start) Progress Next Event 
16-year (Sept 2022) 
8.4-year (Sept 2022) 
4-year (Sept 2022) 
24-month (Feb 2025) 
3.1 years 
3.1 years 
3.1 years 
9th month 
Combined narrowed down 4-year 
cycle crest expected January–June 
2026. 
THE LONG-TERM CYCLES IN THE EURO 
My favored view is that a Euro greater cycle trough took place on September 28, 2022, at 0.954 
USD (5). The prior greater cycle started in October 2000 (1) and was active for close to 22 years. We 
only have one previous greater cycle to compare with, which began in February 1985. It was opera -
tional for 16 years, as it ended in October 2000. Hence, it is possible that the greater cycle is a 19-year 
cycle, with a 3-year orb. However, my bias is that it is a 16-year cycle and that the previous 22-year 
cycle was a distorted greater cycle and thus an outlier. Time will have to tell. 
Assuming the 16-year cycle is the greater cycle, it should normally divide into two 8.4-year cycles. 
In its turn, the 8.4-year cycle has always split into two 4-year cycles. Hence, the assumed greater 16-year 
cycle should now be in its third year and a few months, off the September 2022 trough (5). This is the 
same for the 8.4-year and the 4-year cycles, as all three long-term cycles began at the same low (5). 
The current 4-year cycle is forecast to top out sometime between August 2025 and November 
2026, at 1.313–1.584, an increase of 38%–66%. Once the prices have peaked out, they should head 
144

--- PAGE 149 ---
south to the first 4-year cycle low, anticipated in the time frame December 2025–October 2027, at a 
decline of 15%–26%. 
EURO Preferred Monthly Chart, as of November 14, 2025. 
THE 24-MONTH INTERMEDIATE-TERM CYCLE IN THE EURO 
My preferred outlook is that the 4-year cycle is separating into two 24-month intermediate-term 
cycles. Last year’s report stated: “We should thus be twenty-five months into this first intermediate-
term cycle that began at the September 2022 low. As it is getting late in the cycle to make a higher 
high, my favored view is that the 24-month cycle crest was already established in July 2023 at 1.127 
USD. If this is correct, then the Euro is on its way towards a 24-month cycle bottom, estimated to 
occur with its 6-month orb, sometime between April 2024 and March 2025.” 
Moreover, “The historical 6–20% bullish declines of the 24-month cycles generate a price target 
span of 0.897–1.056. The 38.2–61.8% retracement from the 1.127 crest to the 0.953 low produces a 
price objective range of 1.019–1.061. The overlap creates 1.019–1.056, as the most probable price 
target range for the forthcoming 24-month cycle low.” 
The 24-month cycle low was established on February 3, 2025, at 1.014 (6). This bottom occurred 
after an acceptable twenty-eight months from the September 2022 low and was within the set time 
target. The bottom was also within the historical price target span, but manifested slightly below the 
61.8% retracement price level. 
Further, last year’s report stated: “Once the 24-month cycle low is in place, the prices are expected 
to rise within this second and current 24-month cycle to the 4-year cycle crest. This crest, already 
forecasted earlier, is anticipated to unfold sometime between August 2025 and November 2026, at 
1.313–1.584 USD.” 
As the prices within this second 24-month cycle have overtaken the previous 24-month cycle 
crest of July 2023, at 1.127 (E), it confirms that the current 24-month cycle is in a bullish trend. The 
forthcoming 24-month cycle crest is anticipated to manifest sometime between March and November 
2026, at 1.199–1.471 (an increase of 18–45%). When we overlap the objectives of the 4-year and the 
24-month cycle crests, we obtain March–November 2026 and 1.313–1.471 as the most probable time 
and price targets for the 4-year cycle peak. 
145

--- PAGE 150 ---
So far, the Euro has risen 17.5% from the February 3, 2025, low (6), establishing a yearly high 
on September 17, 2025 at 1.1918. We actually have to go back to the end of June 2021 to reach a 
higher price level. 
Once the 4-year cycle crest is in place, the prices are expected to decline to the 4-year cycle 
trough, projected to take place sometime between December 2025 and October 2027. We can narrow 
down this time target range with the time objective for the second 24-month cycle low, estimated to 
occur with its 6-month orb, in the time frame August 2026–August 2027. 
The 4-year cycle low should manifest at historical price declines of 14.8–25.8%. You may over-
lap this range with the 38.2–61.8% retracement from the newly formed 4-year cycle crest to the 0.953 
low of September 2022 (5), to obtain the most probable price target span for the 4-year cycle bottom. 
GEOCOSMICS 
The current 4-year cycle is expected to peak out sometime in the concentrated time band of 
March–November 2026. We have the important Saturn–Neptune conjunction in February 2026. As 
this planetary pair connects only once, we will extend the timing by four months on either side of the 
conjunction, which generates a time period of October 2025–June 2026. Via overlapping, we acquire 
March–June 2026, which is the most probable timing for the 4-year cycle crest. As already seen, the 
4-year cycle low is then expected to cement, at the latest, by August 2027. 
TECHNICALS 
As you can see on the chart, the prices have managed since last year’s report to surpass a sub -
stantial resistance line, which joins the 2001 and the 2017 lows. As long as prices can stay above this 
now important support line, the bulls are in control. 
If we look to the future, we can see that the line that crosses through the 2010 low (3) and the 
2018 crest (D) is at about 1.334 in March 2026, which is at the beginning of the narrowed-down time 
target range and at the lower edge of the price target span for the 4-year cycle crest. This area could 
be the area where the 4-year long-term cycle peaks out. 
BIAS 
My bias is that the Euro will remain in a long-term bullish trend until at least the upcoming 4-year 
cycle crest, which is due to unfold sometime in the narrowed-down time frame of March–June 2026. 
We should then get a correction down to the 4-year cycle trough, expected, at the latest, by August 
2027. However, once the 4-year cycle bottom is cemented, the prices should, if history repeats itself, 
continue higher within the next 4-year cycle to a combined 8 and 16-year cycle crest. However, we 
must be on the alert that the 16-year cycle peak could already manifest at this forthcoming 4-year 
cycle top (anticipated sometime between March–June 2026). 
If, against my bias, the prices were now to decline below the 1.014 low of February 2025 (6), 
then the current 24-month cycle would turn into a bearish trend, confirming that the 24-month cycle 
crest is behind us. The lowest price of this ongoing intermediate-term cycle will be at its very end, 
sometime between August 2026 and August 2027. Nevertheless, we would only have the confirma -
tion that the whole 16-year cycle has turned bearish if the 0.953 low of September 2022 (5) is broken. 
If this were to occur, then we might even need to revise the whole long-term chart labeling for the 
Euro, where the current 16-year cycle would more likely have started in January 2017. 
146

--- PAGE 151 ---
THE SWISS FRANC 
by Gianni Di Poce, MMA Analyst 
REVIEW 
The Swiss Franc in 2025 was exceptionally strong as it rallied to its highest level since 2011. 
The high of the year was on September 17, 2025, at 1.2904, and the low of the year was on February 
3, 2025, at 1.0923. Once again, the Swiss Franc was one of the strongest-performing fiat currencies 
of 2025, and that’s even with the Swiss National Bank (SNB) cutting rates back down to zero. This 
clearly was not enough to reduce demand for this safe-haven currency. In a world filled with geopo-
litical turmoil, the neutrality of Switzerland has been very appealing to investors. 
But perhaps the biggest development of 2025 was the reset of an 8.25-year cycle. The big ques -
tion, however, is whether this cycle low occurred in May 2024 at 1.0899 or in February 2025 at 
1.0923. Note how this February 2025 low occurred in the 6–22 month secondary low window that 
often occurs at long-term cycle bottoms. Forecast 2025’s conclusion section stated, “If the Swiss 
Franc is in a newer 8.25-year cycle from May 2024, then a rally as high as 1.2750 +/–.0150 cannot 
be ruled out. The biggest thing is that we expect either a high above the high of 2024 at 1.2036 or a 
low below the low of 2024 at 1.0900.” This long-term cyclical reset could prove to be a major tail -
wind for the Swiss Franc in the coming years, and points to higher prices. 
Cycles Start/Progress as of 1/1/26 Next Due 
16.5-years December 2016, 9 years 2029–2035 
8.25-years February 2025, 1 year or 
May 2024, 2 years 
June 2032–June 2033 or 
September 2031–September 2032 
5.5-years November 2022, 4 years May 2027–May 2029 
THE LONG-TERM CYCLES IN THE SWISS FRANC 
The Swiss Franc’s longest cycle is 16.5 years. While this cycle has been shown to fit well for this 
currency, there have only been two previous occurrences, which means it doesn’t have the strongest 
statistical reliability. Nonetheless, previous lows occurred in February 1985, July 2001, and then 
again in December 2016. Note that although there are three lows, they make up only two cycles, 
since they are measured low-to-low. The July 2001 bottom was at 0.5492, and the December 2016 
low occurred at 0.9669. This means the next 16.5-year cycle trough in the Swiss Franc is due in 2032 
+/– 3 years. But perhaps the most exciting development with respect to the 16.5-year cycle is how 
prices hit a new cycle high in 2025. This high in the 9th year is a strong signal that this is a bullish 
16.5-year cycle. Forecast 2025 stated, “… ample time remains for new highs in this currency. Not 
to mention, a Republican president will be in the White House starting in 2025, and historically, 
this corresponds with a weaker Dollar, which means that the Swiss Franc could yet make new cycle 
highs.” And indeed, new highs followed. 
The 16.5-year cycle typically breaks down into two 8.25-year cycles. Historically, this has mani-
fested as a two-phase pattern, with each phase lasting approximately 8.25 years. However, the current 
16.5-year cycle may not be breaking down accordingly this time. It could be exhibiting three 5.5-year 
147

--- PAGE 152 ---
cycles, too, but this is not our bias. The previous 8.25-year cycle lows were in July 2001 (100 months 
from March 1993), November 2008 (88 months from July 2001), and December 2016 (96 months 
from November 2008). The 8.25-year cycle has historically shown a range of 88–100 months. 
Given this range, there are two possible scenarios for an 8.25-year cycle trough. The February 
2025 low would have been 98 months from the December 2016 low, but then there’s also the May 
1, 2024, low, which was 89 months from December 2016. Either way, there is strong evidence that 
a long-term cyclical reset took place in the Swiss Franc. In January 2026 will either enter the 11th 
month in a slightly newer 8.25-year cycle in the Swiss Franc from the February 2025 low, or it will 
begin the 20th month from the May 2024 low. Under the February 2025 labeling, the next 8.25-year 
cycle low wouldn’t be due until June 2032–June 2033. Note how this overlaps with the time band 
for the greater 16.5-year cycle. This is to be expected as it’s in the second 8.25-year cycle phase 
within the 16.5-year cycle. Under the May 2024 labeling, the low wouldn’t be due until September 
2031-September 2032. 
Next, the possibility of a 5.5-year cycle must be addressed. To be clear, there haven’t been any 
instances of a 5.5-year cycle going back to 1985. However, cycles are known to break down into 
smaller phases that are divided by two or three of the greater cycle length. Plus, 5.5-year cycles are 
observed in other currency markets. In this scenario, November 2022 would have been a 5.5-year 
cycle bottom. January 2026 would begin the 38th month from November 2022, or the 4th year, and 
there would still be time for new highs, although a crest could easily form in 2026. This is only the 
second 5.5-year cycle phase within the greater 16.5-year cycle, and a low would be due between May 
2027 and May 2029. The 5.5-year cycle phase to follow out of such a low could easily be bearish 
since the 16.5-year cycle would be very late then, but it’s too soon to know for sure. 
The other long-term factor to consider in the Swiss Franc is the two-phase pattern to the 8.25-
year cycle, which is made up of two 4-year cycles. The 4-year cycle would have reset with the 8.25-
year cycle, which means that the Swiss Franc is now in the first 4-year cycle phase in this newer 
8.25-year cycle. 2026 would either begin the 1st or 2nd year of this 4-year cycle phase, depending on 
148

--- PAGE 153 ---
whether the greater 8.25-year cycle bottomed in May 2024 or February 2025. Note that the previous 
4-year cycle exhibited a case of contraction, as the prior low was in November 2022. But such cases 
of contraction are not uncommon when longer cycles come due, as the 8.25-year cycle overpowers 
the 4-year cycle. It’s still early enough in this 4-year cycle for the Swiss Franc to climb to new highs, 
and in all likelihood, into the 1.3200 +/– .0200 zone at least. 
GEOCOSMICS 
From a mundane astrological standpoint, one of the risks for the Swiss Franc in 2026 is that the 
Swiss National Bank may struggle to keep interest rates low if inflation resurges. Between Neptune 
making its definitive ingress into Aries starting on January 26, 2026, and Jupiter’s eventual ingress 
into Leo on June 30, and the subsequent trine between the two planets on July 20, there’s a real threat 
of another inflationary wave in 2026. However, this may turn out to be bullish for the Swiss Franc, 
because it would eventually force the Swiss National Bank to raise interest rates again. Keep in mind 
that rates have been cut back to zero in Switzerland, and this hasn’t been enough to stem the rise in 
the Swiss Franc. It’s not my bias that the Swiss National Bank hikes in 2026, but if they were to begin 
considering rate hikes again, it probably wouldn’t be before the Jupiter–Pluto opposition of August 31. 
Transits to the Swiss National Bank’s natal chart can also be considered. The central bank was 
established on June 19, 1906, by the National Bank Act, but it didn’t start operating until June 16, 
1907. There is no birthtime available, but outer planetary aspects can still be analyzed. The location 
of this chart is Zurich, Switzerland. Forecast 2025 stated, “The first planetary placement that stands 
out is the SNB’ s natal Venus at 29 degrees of Taurus. Not only is the 29th degree of a sign considered 
to be karmically potent, but Venus also rules currencies. It’ s no surprise that the Swiss Franc is one 
of the strongest currencies from a historical standpoint, with Venus in Taurus, a sign she rules. But 
in 2025 and into 2026, we will see Uranus transit over this degree on multiple occasions. Uranus 
will go retrograde and direct within the orb of Venus as well. Transiting Uranus conjunct Venus is a 
classical currency boom or bust signature. Thus, we have the geocosmic catalyst here for the Swiss 
Franc to potentially collapse as low as 1.0200 +/– 0.0100 in 2025 for an 8.25-year cycle low. A 
sharp rally would likely follow given the nature of this transit. But in the event it’ s a newer 8.25-year 
cycle from May 1, 2024, we could see the Swiss Franc explode higher in value, and potentially rally 
as high as 1.2750 +/– .0150 in 2025. This scenario is supported by the political cycle as well. Ura -
nus will hit the 29-degree mark of Taurus in June 2025, which is a bit late given the 88–100-month 
cycle range of the Swiss Franc’ s 8.25-year cycle. If the low is complete below, then it could coincide 
with a surge higher.” The newer 8.25-year cycle scenario was in play, and indeed, the Swiss Franc 
exploded higher just above the upside target of 1.2750 +/– .0150 last year. The high of the year was 
in September 2025 at 1.2904. 
Looking ahead into 2026, there are a few notable transits that stand out in the SNB’s natal chart. 
First, there will be both Saturn and Jupiter returns for the central bank. The Saturn return is very early 
in the year, January 13. The Jupiter return occurs a couple of times due to retrograde motions on 
February 15 and April 3. If anything, these conjunctions will serve to further reinforce the value of 
the Swiss Franc for the first few months of 2026. There will even be another conjunction with transit-
ing Uranus over the Swiss Franc’s natal Venus on April 23. This may serve to coincide with another 
notable surge in the value of the Swiss Franc +/- 1 month. 
However, the prospect for volatility in the Swiss Franc starts to increase starting in May, as there 
will be a T-square between Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune. Transiting Saturn will be at the apex, as 
149

--- PAGE 154 ---
Uranus and Neptune are in opposition in the SNB’s natal chart, in Capricorn and Cancer, respectively. 
Due to retrograde motions, there will be another passage of this T-square in late September and early 
October. Thus, the Swiss Franc may experience a period of sharp volatility between late May and 
early October. It could start as an initial spike to the upside, followed by a sharp drop to the downside, 
or vice versa, but this seems to be the hot spot for the currency in 2026. Remember that if the mar -
ket sniffs out that the SNB is going to eventually start raising rates again, it could lead to a flood of 
money rushing into this safe-haven currency. It’s also worth pointing out that the Uranus–Pluto trine, 
which is the feature signature of 2026 and beyond, does not aspect the Swiss National Bank chart at 
all throughout this year. If anything, this may prove to provide some extra stability, which is highly 
sought after in this current market environment. 
CONCLUSIONS 
There are still questions as to whether the Swiss Franc is breaking down into a two-phase, a 
three-phase, or even a combination pattern when it comes to the 16.5-year cycle. As of this writ -
ing in November 2025, my bias is increasingly that a combination pattern with both 8.25-year and 
5.5-year cycle phases is playing out. The breakout to new multi-year highs in 2025 confirmed that 
an 8.25-year cycle bottomed either in May 2024 or February 2025 (the latter can be considered a 
double-bottom, or secondary low). The Swiss Franc is still early enough in the 8.25-year cycle for 
the currency to exceed the 2025 highs in 2026. However, it’s not as probable that a sustained surge 
similar to what was witnessed in 2025 will play out in 2026. 
The 5.5-year cycle is still early enough to carry the Swiss Franc to new multi-year highs as well. 
Ideally, a rally up to the 1.3900–1.4000 zone can occur before the longer-term 16.5-year cycle tops 
out, and while this is the best-case scenario for the Swiss Franc in 2026, it’s not the likeliest one. 
Instead, a rally up to the 1.3400–1.3600 area is the preferred target for 2026. My bias is that the Swiss 
Franc won’t see lower prices than 1.2200–1.2300 in 2026 either. In other words, new highs above 
the 2025 highs are on the table, but new lows below the 2025 lows are not (that would be quite the 
reversal back lower). In fact, the sooner the Swiss Franc breaks above 1.2600–1.2700, the sooner that 
becomes the new floor, or the new support zone in this currency. It’s shaping up to be another strong 
year for the Swiss Franc in 2026. 
In summary, position traders may buy the Swiss Franc as long as it remains above 1.1950 on a 
closing basis. 
150

--- PAGE 155 ---
BITCOIN IN 2026 
by Raymond Merriman 
“Never sell your Bitcoin,” 
—President Donald Trump, “Full Text of Trump’s Speech at the Bitcoin Conference,” 
The Block Beats, July 27, 2024. 
“It ain’t what you don’t know that gets you into trouble. It’ s what you know for sure that just 
ain’t so.” 
—Mark Twain, as posted on “X” by @SilverSurfer23 (Melbourne, Australia). 
REVIEW AND PREVIEW 
Bitcoin had quite a year in 2025. It started with a new all-time high of 109,071 on January 26. It 
then fell to a yearly low of 74,445 on April 7–9, a loss of 31.7%. Next, it rallied to yet another new 
all-time high (ATH) on October 6, 2025, at 126,223, which was a double top to an earlier ATH of 
124,480 made on August 14, 2025. 
The behavior of Bitcoin (BTC) during the year fit the two special updates I issued during the 
year. The first was issued on May 5 as BTC was trading around 94,000. It called for an all-time high 
to take place around October 2025, +/– 1 month, based on the history of the halving cycle, where new 
ATHs tend to happen 16–18 months later. The halving event took place in April 2024. The high was 
thus due August–October. The forecast was moved up one month, to September–November, based 
on the phasing of shorter-term cycles and geocosmic studies. The price target given for the high was 
up to 150,000–158,000. 
After the 124,480 new ATH on August 14 and a pullback to the 105,000 area on September 1, a 
special webinar was conducted on September 14, where my outlook on Bitcoin was revised. Although 
150,000 was still a possible target, it was getting late in the time band for a new ATH, ideally due in 
October now. Traders needed to be alert to a possible double top this late in the cycle, where BTC 
could test and even slightly exceed the 124,480 ATH on August 14, and that is what happened. On 
October 6, 2025, the yearly high in BTC, as of this writing, was recorded at 126,223. 
The combination of cycles studies, geocosmics, and chart patterns worked out extremely well. 
Since that time, and as of this writing in early November, BTC has declined by over 20% and below 
100,000. 
Based on these same cycle studies reported in the special update and webinar of May and Sep -
tember 2025, the outlook now calls for a decline of 70–90% in BTC by the end of 2026. A new ATH 
in the first quarter of 2026 would alter or delay this bearish outlook for 2026. 
151

--- PAGE 156 ---
Bitcoin Cycles Start/Progress as of 1/1/26 Next Due 
4-year (49-month) November 2022, 38 months 
April 2026–August 2027 
Highlighted October 2026–February 
2027 
2-year (24-month) August 2024, 17 months April–December 2026 
16-month April 2025, 9 months May–November 2026 
10.5-month April 2025, 9 months December 2025–May 2026 
Table of Bitcoin Cycles to date 
CYCLES 
There is not a lot of historical data on Bitcoin to derive any strong long-term cycles. Hence, Mark 
Twain’s adage about “It ain’t what you don’t know that gets you into trouble. It’ s what you know 
for sure that just ain’t so,” applies here. We don’t have enough data to have high confidence in the 
longer-term cycles related to Bitcoin. It’s only been around for 17 years. 
Early indications, however, suggest the possibility that a 4–year cycle may apply to BTC. 
The all-time low was $0.01 (one cent) on October 8, 2010. After rising to a high of $1242 on 
November 29, 2013, BTC fell 88.5% to a low of $142 on January 14, 2015. This was 51 months fol-
lowing the all-time low of .01 in October 2010. 
From there, the second 4-year cycle began. BTC soared to a new all-time high of $19,458 on 
December 18, 2017. But then it collapsed to a low of $3122 on December 15, 2018. This was 47 
months after the previous low and represented a loss of 83.9%. 
The third instance ended with the low of November 21, 2022, which was 49 months after the 
prior low. Thus, we have three instances where a possible 4-year cycle bottomed between 47 and 51 
152

--- PAGE 157 ---
months. Allowing a normal range of 1/6 of the median cycle length would suggest a 4-year cycle 
with an orb of eight months. Measured from November 21, 2022, the next 4-year cycle would be 
due November 2026 +/– 8 months, or March 2026 to July 2027. If it happens in the 47–51 month 
intervals of the first three cases, it would next be due October 2026 to February 2027. 
Cycles usually subdivide into phases that are either 1/2 or 1/3 the length of the greater cycle. In 
many cases, both a 2- and 3-phase cycle may be present in the greater cycle, forming a “combina -
tion” pattern. The current 4-year BTC cycle is unfolding in a combination pattern, with lows at both 
the ½ and 1/3 intervals. Thus, we see both a 16-month and a 24-month sub-cycle within the greater 
4-year cycle. 
The first 24-month half-cycle occurred on August 5, 2024, at 49,445. It was 21 months following 
the 4-year cycle on November 21, 2022. With a range of four months, it is next due between April 2026 
and December 2026. Note that it will overlap the 4-year cycle which is also due during this time. 
Two of the three-phase sub-cycles have also taken place, on January 23, 2024, and April 7, 2025. 
The third one will coincide with the 4-year cycle. With a range of 13–19 months, it is ideally due 
from May to November 2026, again overlapping with the 4-year cycle, as well as the next 24-month 
cycle. In fact, if the 4-year cycle again unfolds at the 47–51-month interval, all of these cycles would 
overlap October to November 2026. With such a short history in BTC, however, it might be wise to 
consider the orb to be a bit wider. 
Lately, BTC has also been exhibiting an 8–13 month cycle. There could be two of these within 
the 16-month cycle, and in some cases, it may even coincide with the 16-month cycle if it happens 
in a 13-month period. Within the 24-month cycle, it could unfold two or three times. If this sub-cycle 
is valid, then April 7, 2025, started its second phase of the 24-month cycle, and first phase of the 
16-month cycle. Its next low is thus due December 2025 to May 2026. The one after that would 
coincide with three longer cycles: the 16-month, 24-month, and 4-year cycles. 
PRICE TARGETS 
When several cycles converge to bottom simultaneously, then the magnitude of the decline is 
typically steep. It is magnified over what would be expected for a low in the shorter-term cycles. 
Hence, my forecast is for a 70–90% decline from the all-time high of 2025 to the 4-year cycle low 
due in late 2026. It is consistent with the declines from the three prior 4-year cycle highs to lows. In 
other financial markets, such “crashes” are usually 77–93% selloffs from the cycle’s highs. Bitcoin 
has so far fallen into this category, too. 
Short-term, the second 10.5-month cycle trough due December 2025–May 2026 has a measured 
price target of 100,335 +/– 6110, or 94,225–106,445. It’s already traded down to 90,000 as of this 
writing in early November 2025 and could be lower by the time the book comes out. But that 10.5-
month low is due. 
If the longer–term 4-year cycle is to exert its dominance, however, BTC could fall further into its 
next 10.5-month cycle trough. A break below the 16-month moving average (MA) would be the first 
signal. That MA is around 94,000 as this is being written, which is also near the low end of the down-
side price target given above. A break below the 24-month MA, around 82,000 as of mid-November, 
would be a stronger indication that the 4-year cycle has topped out. If these levels are broken, then 
the 4-year cycle crest is in, and a 77–93% decline would give a downside price target of 8835–29,050 
153

--- PAGE 158 ---
for the 4-year cycle trough, due late 2026. However, it should also be pointed out that no 4-year cycle 
bottom has yet to break below a previous 4-year cycle crest. The last confirmed 4-year cycle crest was 
68,999 in November 2021. Measured off the high of 2025, that would represent a decline of 45%, far 
short of declines to previous 4-year cycle troughs of over 78%. 
Until major support at 75,000–85,000 is broken, however, the bullish case cannot be completely 
dismissed. The last 10.5-month cycle low in April was 74,445. Technically, BTC is not confirmed 
bearish by MMA methodology until it closes below there, assuming there is not a new high first. If 
the market is to be bullish, and support holds above 75,000–85,000, then the next rally would make 
a new ATH. An estimate of that next high would be 145,000 +/– 900. 
In the meantime, if the bearish phase of the 4-year cycle has started, then the rally to the crest of 
the next 10.5-month cycle would be corrective and not make a new all-time high. Resistance for such 
a corrective rally would normally be about 110,000 +/– 4000. But with Bitcoin, rallies (and declines) 
can exceed normal measurements. A rally back to 122,000–125,000 would create an interesting head 
and shoulders chart formation with a neckline around 90,000–95,000. Closing below that would put 
BTC on track for another leg down to 60,000–65,000. And it still wouldn’t be enough for the projec-
tion to the final 4-year cycle trough. 
GEOCOSMIC CYCLES 
Once again, there is just not enough history to conduct formal studies to identify high-frequency 
correlations between geocosmic cycles and cycles in Bitcoin prices. We can only speculate based on 
basic astrological principles as they might relate to new digital currencies. The assumption is that 
Uranus will be a key geocosmic factor, for it is associated with newness, disruption, and sudden 
changes. Given that world currencies are in a transition phase, moving from paper currencies, backed 
by goodwill and faith of various world governments, to a decentralized digital means of exchange, 
the principles of Uranus appear to apply. And that brings us back to the observation of Uranus as 
an indicator of boom-bust behavior related to the sectors of the economy associated with the sign it 
transits through. 
154

--- PAGE 159 ---
Uranus spends approximately seven years in a sign. It crossed from Taurus into Gemini on July 
7, 2025, through November 8, 2025. It returned back to Taurus, where it remains until April 25, 2026, 
after which it will spend the next six years in Gemini. As Taurus rules money and currency, last year’s 
book suggested, “Bitcoin could experience another large decline nearby to the period when Uranus 
ingresses into Gemini, July 2025–April 2026.” Indeed, Bitcoin made its all-time high in this period 
so far, on October 6, 2025. Then, “This outlook assumes that Bitcoin will exhibit a boom/bust pat -
tern in both Taurus and Gemini. Why? Well, Taurus makes sense because it represents currencies, 
and Bitcoin is a digital currency. Gemini makes sense too, because Bitcoin relies on the blockchain 
technology, which plays a crucial role in maintaining a secure and decentralized record of transac-
tions in digital currencies. There are apt to be many new novel applications and innovations related 
to blockchain use, and this too can greatly affect the price of Bitcoin.” Thus, we expect Bitcoin to 
fall sharply into a 4-year cycle low in the early part of Uranus transiting Gemini, followed by another 
new all-time high within the next 2–4 years. 
Last year’s book also focused on the Venus retrograde cycle. It stated, “Another geocosmic fac-
tor to consider is Venus retrograde, March 1–April 12. Since Venus rules currencies, and Bitcoin is 
a digital currency, a reversal from an intermediate-term–term cycle high could take place here. If 
Bitcoin continues its rally into 2025, we could see the crest of the 11- and 16-month cycles January– 
March, and then the decline into the low of those cycles within two months of June 2025.” BTC did 
make an all-time high in January 2025, followed by a sharp 31.7% decline into April 7–9, which was 
within two months of June 2025, and while Venus was retrograde. Venus will next turn retrograde 
October 3–November 13, 2026, right in the period when we anticipate the 4-year cycle trough. 
CONCLUSIONS 
My outlook on Bitcoin in 2026 is quite simple: 
The 4-year cycle crest is in, as of October 2025. 
Bitcoin is now in the process of a 73–93% decline into its 4-year cycle trough due April 2026– 
August 2027, and especially October 2026–February 2027. 
The price target for the low is 8835–29,050. 
The outlook will be revised if BTC closes above 127,000. 
Investors are advised to buy Bitcoin on a break below 30,000 after April 2026, and especially if 
it happens in October 2026–February 2027. 
For further guidance on Bitcoin through 2026, readers are encouraged to subscribe to MMA’s 
daily and weekly Bitcoin reports, which are available at www.mmacycles.com. A new monthly MMA 
Crypto Report is scheduled to begin by March 2026. 
CRITICAL REVERSAL DATES FOR BTC IN 2026 
The critical reversal dates given below for Bitcoin are based on observations of strong reversals 
over the past couple of years. There is not enough history yet to determine if they will work consis -
tently in the future. Many of these reversal observations involved aspects of the Sun, Venus, and Mars 
to Uranus. Venus–Mars and Venus–Saturn aspects also appeared to be important reversal signatures. 
Allow a 3-day orb for potential reversals. 
155

--- PAGE 160 ---
January 16–19 
February 5–6 
February 16 
February 27–March 2 (Watch March 6–9 for a low as well) 
April 21 
May 22–25 
July 6 
July 17–20 
July 27 
August 28–31 (may be a low around July 21) 
September 10 
October 6–7 
November 13 
November 25 
December 4 
156

--- PAGE 161 ---
CRUDE OIL IN 2026 
by Pouyan Zolfagharnia, MMA Analyst 
REVIEW 
The water sign of Pisces is commonly associated with Crude Oil, which is ruled over by Neptune 
and Jupiter. The 2022 high for Crude Oil was 130.50 on March 7 and occurred while the Sun trans -
lated the Jupiter–Neptune conjunction in Pisces. This was a significant geocosmic signature relating 
to Crude Oil and may remain as the 12-year crest. Yet it is still early in the cycle, and for the time 
being, it remains as the 4-year crest. 
Saturn, the planet of restrictions and contraction, was next to enter Pisces a year later, in March 
2023, and will remain there until February 13, 2026, shortly before the Saturn–Neptune conjunction 
a week later. Crude Oil fell to the 4-year trough in May 2023, a double bottom to the initial low of 
March as Saturn entered Pisces. We have seen numerous Saturnian ‘restrictions’ and ‘limits’ imposed 
on this market, from the price cap and sanctions on the sale of Russian Crude Oil to the Saudi pro -
duction cuts as OPEC+ tried to manage supply. Saturn’s impact can be seen directly on the prices of 
Crude Oil, which has been trapped under a steep trendline since the high of March 2022. 
In 2025, the Saturn–Neptune conjunction was within a 1° orb, and we saw the current 4-year 
cycle turn bearish by taking out the low that commenced the cycle. As we enter the new year and in 
the orb of the Saturn–Neptune conjunction, we are seeing the 22-month moving average (MA) drop-
ping below the slower 72-month MA. With prices under the two MAs, this will downgrade the trend 
to bearish for the first time since the 2020 pandemic low. 
As noted in Forecast 2025, “With Saturn exiting the sign of Pisces and entering the confronta -
tional sign of Aries. With numerous geocosmic signatures pointing to 2025–2026 as a period of tense 
geopolitical activity, it is worth mentioning that this asset is often used as a barometer for geopolitical 
157

--- PAGE 162 ---
risk, translating it as higher Crude Prices.” During Saturn’s brief ingress into Aries between May and 
September 2025, we saw the breakout of the 12-day war between Iran and Israel. This sent Crude Oil 
rallying over 42%. I believe this was a prelude for further geopolitical turmoil that is likely to follow 
with Saturn’s entry into Aries over the next three years. If you refer to the chapter on Jupiter’s transit 
of Leo, you will see that the Middle East has experienced geopolitical instability and tension during 
each of these transits, including the Iraq wars of 1990 and 2003. During the 2003 transit, Mossad 
agents leaked information on the Iranian nuclear program. In the previous transit, we saw the Obama 
administration broker the Iranian nuclear deal. There is a pattern suggestive of tensions reaching a 
boiling point with Iran between June 2026 and July 2027. 
Crude Oil Cycles Start/Progress as of 1/1/26 Next Due 
12 year April 2020, 6 years 2030–2034 
6 year April 2020, 6 years 2025–2027 
4 year (44 months) May 2023, 32 months May 2026–September 2027 
15 month September 2024, 16 months September 2025–March 2026 
22 month April 2025, 9 months October 2026–June 2027 
THE 12-YEAR CYCLE IN CRUDE OIL AND ITS PHASES 
The long-term cyclical analysis in Crude Oil begins with a potential 36-year cycle. The exact 
periodicity of this cycle is unknown because there haven’t been enough occurrences in Crude Oil to 
quantify it to a high degree of statistical probability. The previous 36-year cycle was from April 1986 
until April 2020, which was 34 years. 
The 36-year cycle can be subdivided into either two 18-year cycles with a range of 15–21 years, 
or three 12-year cycles with a range of 10–14 years. Historical analysis suggests that the 12-year 
cycle is more prominent. From the low of April 1986, the next 12-year trough was February of 1999, 
which was 12 years and 10 months. Following that, the next trough was January of 2009, which was 
9 years and 11 months. The final 12-year cycle was April 2020, which was 11 years and 3 months 
later. This means that the next 12-year cycle trough is due 2032 +/– 2 years. 
As shown in the chart above, the 12-year cycle has a tendency to break down into three 4-year 
or 44-month cyclical phases, with a range of 36–52 months. Therefore, my preferred outlook is 
that the current 44-month cycle formed on May 4, 2023, at 63.64. The trough formed under the 
22-month MA and even tested the 72-month MA. The next 44-month cyclical trough is due Janu -
ary 2027 +/– 8 months. In January 2026, we will be commencing the 32nd month of the current 
44-month cycle, which has turned bearish by taking out the low that commenced the cycle in April 
of 2025. 
There is also a chance that the current 12-year cycle is breaking down into a two-phased cycle of 6 
years (range of 5–7 years). This would mean that the 6-year cycle is due between 2025–2027, preferably 
with Saturn in Pisces and in orb of the Saturn–Neptune conjunction. This is my alternative outlook, but 
it deserves attention because a case can be made that a 6-year half cycle is breaking down further into 
two 3-year half-cycle phases with a range of 30–42 month, similar to the U.S. stock market cycle. 
158

--- PAGE 163 ---
Under both scenarios, once the 44-month or 6-year trough has formed, I am expecting a strong 
rally back up to the descending trendline that is joining the July 2008 crest to the March 2022 one (in 
the region of 110–125). Since we are in a bullish 12-year cycle, having taken out the crest of the prior 
cycle, it is perfectly conceivable that Crude Oil may even break through the descending trendline and 
record a new ATH with a $130 +/– 15.35 rally from the 44-month or 6-year cycle trough. 
Whilst this asset has essentially remained dormant with the Saturn transit through Pisces over 
the past 3 years, investors should not take their eyes off Crude Oil’s potential for a significant rally. 
The fundamental picture is mixed; On one hand, an economic recession into 2027 would retain prices 
within the bearish price channel until the end of the 44-month or 6-year cycle. On the other hand, the 
risk of geopolitical tension with oil-producing nations (Russia, Iran, Venezuela, etc.), coupled with 
historical low levels of the U.S. Strategic Petroleum Reserve, suggests that Crude Oil prices are coil-
ing and preparing to erupt. 
THE INTERMEDIATE-TERM CYCLES 
The 44-month cycle, in turn, can either break down into two 22-month cycles or three 15-month 
cycles. 
My preferred outlook for the intermediate cycle count is that we have had a two-phased 
44-month cycle, with the first 22-month cycle following from the April 2020 low, being December 
2021 at 62.43. The next 22-month cycle contracted to 17 months and culminated with a 44-month 
cycle in May 2023 at 63.64. The current 44-month cycle is also breaking down into two phases, 
with the first phase forming in April 2025 at 55.12. The price target for the 44-month trough is 
51.01 +/– 5.20 at any time between May 2026 and September 2027. This is my preferred outlook 
for the intermediate outlook. 
As discussed above, the 12-year cycles may be unfolding in two 6-year phases. Whilst this break-
down is far less prominent, it has occurred in the past, so I am sharing it as an alternative outlook. 
This suggests the 6-year trough is due at any point between 2025 and 2027. It would also suggest that 
the 6-year cycle is either breaking down into three 24-month +/– 4 months phases or two 36-month 
159

--- PAGE 164 ---
+/– 6 months phases. If we are in a 6-year cycle, it would appear to have formed a 36-month half-
cycle phase in May 2023, 37 months into the cycle. In this scenario, January will commence the 32nd 
month of the second 36-month cycle, which has turned bearish. The price target for the 36-month 
trough is 28.17 +/– 7.89 at any time between November 2025 and November 2026. It’s possible it 
doesn’t fall that low, as a break below 55.12 would be a minimum target to meet the criterion. 
GEOCOSMICS 
As noted in Forecast 2025, “The important geocosmic events relating to Crude Oil during 2025 
will be the fact that Saturn will leave Pisces, and the ingress of both Saturn and Neptune over the 
vernal axis, which will take place numerous times during 2025 to 2026, going out with a bang at the 
Saturn–Neptune conjunction on February 20, 2026. With heavy and restrictive Saturnian energy lift-
ing as early as May 2025, we should see a rally in Crude Oil prices.” We got a preview of what is to 
come, between May and June 2025, with the Iran–Israel 12-day war, which sent Crude Oil rallying 
41.8%. It’s worth noting that Israel did not target any of the Iranian petroleum infrastructure during 
the attacks. However, Iran immediately threatened to block (Saturn) the Strait of Hormuz (Neptune), 
should the war escalate. These concerns remain heightened as we enter 2026. 
The seasonal trend for Crude Oil is a slump as the Sun transits Sagittarius. As such, I am looking 
for a buying opportunity from late November to mid-December 2025. From here, I would expect a 
rally at least from late February into early March. For the time being, all rallies will be corrective in 
nature until we break through the descending trendline and bearish price channel in the weekly chart. 
If we see a strong weekly or monthly close above these resistance zones, we could see Crude Oil 
rally all the way into July 2026 +/–1 month. At this point, the Jupiter–Pluto opposition will be in full 
force. In prior instances, this signature has corresponded to crest formations within 3 months of the 
opposition that preceded a sharp sell-off. The high of June 2014 formed 2 months after the final Jupi-
ter–Pluto opposition of April 2014. Crude Oil went on to drop 75.8% in value from the crest. The time 
before that was the high of October 2000, which formed a month after the first passage of the Jupi -
ter–Pluto opposition of September 2000. Crude Oil went on to drop 53.7% in value from that crest. 
Historical analysis of the Neptune cycle shows that this planet is inflationary when transiting fire 
signs or the vernal axis. There is also evidence of inflationary spikes occurring at the Saturn–Neptune 
conjunctions. We also have the disruptive planet, Uranus, transiting the transactive sign of Gemini, 
which was always expected to bring about trade disruptions. Whilst we are yet to see the full infla -
tionary impact of Trump’s trade wars, it is also worth noting that Crude Oil is one of the key com -
modities responsible for inflation. The last time Neptune went over the vernal axis was 1861, which 
corresponds to the highest value in WTI (when adjusted for inflation) during the American Civil War. 
Crude Oil tends to form important reversals in close proximity to the retrograde motion of Nep-
tune and Jupiter. Neptune will go retrograde on July 7, 2026, until December 12, 2026. Jupiter will go 
retrograde on November 11, 2025, and will be retrograde until March 10, 2026. It will start its next 
retrograde from December 12, 2026 (same day as Neptune) until April 12, 2027. 
CONCLUSION 
Whilst the geocosmic outlook is tense, the cycle studies take precedence and remain bearish. The 
cycle studies dictate a bearish move down into the preferred 44-month trough (May 2026–September 
2027) or the alternative outlook of the 6-year trough (April 2025–April 2027). In the latter case, a 
three-year cycle would be due November 2025–November 2026. This overlap zone could be the hot 
160

--- PAGE 165 ---
zone. The price action will help guide us as to which cycle is forming, since the price target for the 
44-month trough is 51.01 +/– 5.20, whilst the target for the 6-year trough may be the steeper decline 
to 28.17 +/– 7.89. 
If the geopolitics flare up before either of these two troughs has formed, we are only going to see 
a corrective rally, which will be followed by a sharp move back down, as seen in 2025. However, if 
geopolitics is aligned with either the 44-month or 6-year low, we are likely to see a spectacular rally 
that has a good chance of recording a new ATH. I would expect this low to be accompanied by bullish 
oscillator divergence in the CCI of the weekly chart. Confirmation for the rally will be a weekly or 
monthly close above the descending trend lines shown in my charts. 
THREE-STAR CRITICAL REVERSAL DATES FOR 2026–CRUDE OIL 
The following is a list of three-star geocosmic critical reversal dates (CRDs) used in MMA’s 
market-timing calculations for Crude Oil. You may also include the CRDs given for the stock market, 
as others not listed here may appear there. Allow a three-day orb for a cycle to culminate during these 
periods. The CRDs are mostly valid when a market is in the time band for a primary, half-primary, or 
major cycle crest or trough. Look to buy cycle lows that may unfold or sell crests if prices rally into 
these CRD zones. 
January 9–12 
February 20–23 
March 6–9 
March 20–23 
April 9 
June 12–15 
July 7 
July 21 
July 28 
August 13–14 
August 31 
September 28–29 
November 19–20 
December 11–14 or December 18–21 
161

--- PAGE 166 ---
GRAIN MARKETS IN 2026 
by Wyatt Fellows, MMA Analyst 
REVIEW 
Last year’s Forecast 2025 book left off with: “The bottom line here is that with ample grain 
stocks heading into 2025, and the unknown outcomes of the next administration’ s policies toward 
energy and trade, it will probably take a supply reduction event to significantly push grain prices 
higher in 2025. Just such an event is possible with the coming Saturn–Neptune conjunction, but its 
effect on the grain markets may not fully be felt until into 2026.” 
We did not get a major supply-reducing weather event last year, and President Trump decided to 
play another game of chicken with China on trade. This kept the grain markets largely range-bound 
but with a more downward bias in Corn and Wheat. On a positive note, all three major grains retested 
their August 2024 lows to some degree in 2025 and held. This is encouraging price action, and as we 
close out 2025, definite signs of life are emerging that could lead to some nice returns for this com -
plex after years of underperformance relative to other commodities and asset classes. 
WEATHER 
The main event for the grain markets in 2026 is the conjunction of Saturn (restriction) and Nep-
tune (water) taking place in the sign of Aries (fire) on February 20, 2026. In the past, significant 
highs in the grain markets occurred at the conjunctions and oppositions of these two outer planets, 
and mostly within 15 months of the exact aspect. These highs were usually a result of a significant 
drought taking place over a major grain-producing region of the world, which is a hallmark of Saturn 
in Aries (wildfires, eruptions, droughts). For Wheat, these areas would be China, India, and Russia. 
For Corn, it would be the United States, China, and Brazil. And for Soybeans, Brazil, the United 
States, and Argentina. Any widespread hot and dry conditions or lack of adequate rainfall in these 
parts of the world has the potential to light a fire (pun intended) under Corn, Soybeans, and/or Wheat 
this coming year. 
Aiding in the potential for a significant drought to develop somewhere in the world during 2026 
and into 2027 is the fact that three outer planets (Jupiter, Saturn, and Neptune) will be in fire signs 
(Aries and Leo) during much of 2026 before fiery Mars adds to this energy when it enters the sign of 
Leo on September 27, where it will remain until November 25. To follow this alignment, there will 
be an even bigger collection of six planets in fire signs during the spring of 2027, when Venus and 
Mercury will join the party as they transit the sign of Aries during April and May 2027. That is a lot 
of heated energy potential in the sky at one time. On top of this, we will have the disruptive planet 
Uranus entering the air sign of Gemini at the end of April. We could see an increase in high winds or 
destructive storm activity during the 2026 growing season. 
During 2026, we will want to pay attention when Mars (and sometimes Venus) is making hard 
aspects with Jupiter, Saturn, and Neptune. As mentioned, these planets will reside in fire signs this 
year and could usher in changes in weather patterns to become more arid, hot, and dry. We should also 
pay attention to when Mars forms hard aspects to Uranus (unpredictable) and Pluto (destructive), as 
severe weather around these times could cause more localized events of crop damage. 
162

--- PAGE 167 ---
At the end of the day, weather and climate are fickle creatures. They are a construct of hundreds 
of variables, each continuously affecting the other and constantly changing the outcome. There is a 
reason why local weather forecasters get a bad rap for not being able to accurately predict the weather 
even seven days out—because it’s difficult. All we can do is look at the past and apply those possi -
bilities to the future. For 2026 and into 2027, the heavens are pointing to an elevated risk of adverse 
weather significant enough to affect crop production to a meaningful degree. That does not mean that 
it is going to happen by any means, but it is prudent that we are aware of the possibility. 
163

--- PAGE 168 ---
CORN 
REVIEW 
Corn peaked for the year at 504.50 in February 2025. This was not shocking, as last year’s Forecast 
2025 stated: “I would look for Corn to at least test 475.00 at some point during 2025 with an eventual 
upside target of 540.00–600.00. A lot will depend on the growing season in North and South America as 
to how long and how high Corn can rally.” Growing conditions were generally good in North and South 
America, so after peaking, Corn spent the next six months falling to a low of 368.75 in August 2025. This 
was 8.25 cents above the August 2024 low of 360.50 and was likely a successful retest of this long-term 
bottom. Since bottoming, Corn has caught a bid, retracing about 50% of the decline off the February high. 
Corn Cycles Start/Progress as of 1/1/26 Next Due 
18-year April 2020 or August 2016, 6th year or 
10th year 2038 +/– 3 yr or 2034 +/– 3 yr 
9-year April 2020 or August 2024, 6th year or 2nd 
year 2029 +/– 2 yr or 2033 +/– 2 yr 
4.6-year August 2024, 2nd year (17th month) May 2028–January 2030 
33-month August 2024, 17th month November 2026–November 2027 
THE 18-YEAR CYCLE 
The longest cycle we measure in Corn is the 18-year cycle. It has a range of 15–21 years and 
last bottomed in April 2020 at 300.25. This low was 20 years after the previous 18-year cycle low 
in August 2000, so it was on time. The year 2026 will begin the sixth year of this current 18-year 
cycle, which is not due to bottom again until 2038 +/– 3 years. The high so far for this current 18-year 
cycle occurred in April 2022 when Corn reached 827.00. This was a gain of 175% from the start of 
the cycle. While impressive, it is still a little short of the average trough-to-peak gains of previous 
18-year cycles, which are 308% when throwing out obvious outliers. 
Because we are still relatively early in this 18-year cycle, there is still plenty of time for Corn to 
mount another substantial rally. In fact, in the last three 18-year cycles, the crest formed beyond the half-
way point of the cycle (right translation) in two of them. In the third case, the high occurred in the first 
half of the cycle, but that high was tested (forming a double top) during the second half. This implies 
that Corn has a good chance of at least revisiting the all-time high of 827.00 at some point in the future. 
While we are using 2020 as the starting year for this current 18-year cycle, I think an alternative 
starting year should be entertained. Since 1912, every 18-year cycle in Corn has bottomed within 0–2 
years (usually 0–1) of Wheat’s 18-year cycle. Wheat’s last 18-year cycle bottomed in 2016, so the 2020 
low in Corn would have been four years later. This does not fit the historical cycle relationship between 
these two grains. However, Corn did have a low in August 2016 when it fell to 301.00. This is extremely 
close to the April 2020 low of 300.25—close enough to be considered a double bottom to the August 
2016 low and not the start of this current 18-year cycle. The implication here is that instead of Corn 
being in the sixth year of its 18-year cycle, 2026 would be the 10th year measured from the August 2016 
low. The magnitude of the decline from the 2022 high would argue that this labeling might be a better 
fit. In fact, as time goes by, this is more and more becoming my preferred bias. 
164

--- PAGE 169 ---
THE 9-YEAR CYCLE 
The 18-year cycle traditionally breaks down into two 9-year cycle phases. The 18-year cycle can 
also break down into a three-phase pattern of 6-year cycles, but these can be hard to distinguish from 
the 4.6-year half-cycle to the 9-year cycle. Depending on the correct starting year for the 18-year 
cycle (this would also be the starting year for the 9-year cycle, as shorter cycles reset when longer 
cycles culminate), 2026 will either begin the sixth year of the first 9-year cycle phase measured off 
the April 2020 bottom or the second year of the second 9-year cycle phase measured off the August 
2024 bottom. My bias at the moment lies with the latter. 
If my bias is correct and we are indeed two years into the second and final 9-year cycle phase, 
then there are historical criteria to watch out for. First, these second 9-year phases rally for only 
2–4 years before topping out. This makes 2026 an early candidate for a 9-year cycle crest to form. 
Second, the percentage gains in this crest have ranged from 119% to 193%. A 119% gain from the 
360.50 low would equate to about 790.00. Reaching this price target would satisfy the third cri -
terion of Corn, at least testing and even exceeding the crest that occurred in the first 9-year cycle 
phase (827.00 in this case). 
To be fair, this would be a substantial move if it were to all occur in 2026, so this may be some-
thing that we will need to revisit in Forecast 2027. However, the move higher has to start somewhere, 
so we may see a nice surge in Corn prices this year with the geocosmic and fundamental backdrop 
in play. 
THE 4.6-YEAR AND 33-MONTH CYCLES 
If the 9-year cycle is breaking down in a three-phase pattern, it typically consists of three 
33-month cycles. If the 9-year cycle is breaking down into a two-phase pattern, then we usually see 
two 4.6-year cycles (55 months) form. The orb of this 55-month cycle is a little wide at 14 months, 
but that is what you get when analyzing a commodity largely dictated by the weather. In the last few 
instances, the 9-year cycle has been showing a preference for deploying in a two-phase pattern, so we 
will go with the idea that this is going to continue in the current cycle. 
165

--- PAGE 170 ---
If we assume the 18- and 9-year cycles bottomed in 2016, then the April 2020 low would have 
occurred 44 months later and in the time band for a 55-month bottom to form. Measuring from the 
April 2020 low, the August 2024 bottom was 52 months later—again, right on time for a 55-month 
low, and since it was the second 55-month cycle phase, August 2024 was probably a 9-year low as 
well. After an initial rally to the 27-month (half the length of the 55-month cycle) moving average, 
Corn came back to test the 2024 low in August 2025. This is tracing out a similar pattern seen at pre-
vious 9-year lows (the 2008–2009 bottom) and bodes well for the price of Corn in 2026 and onward 
should it continue. 
I will be watching for Corn to start closing above the 27-month moving average in 2026, fol -
lowed by the 18-month moving average climbing above the 27-month. This has been a strong signal 
that Corn has indeed formed at least a 4.6-year low. As of this writing in early November, those 
moving averages are sitting around 427.00 and 437.00, and Corn is now poking above the 27-month 
moving average. 
The smallest percentage gain of 55-month cycles has been 30%, but this was in a bearish cycle. 
In bullish first-phase cycles (which I think we are in), the smallest gain has been 54%, while the 
largest was 311%. A 54% rise from the 360.50 low in August 2024 equates to 555.00. Therefore, I 
think 555.00 +/– 25.00 is a reasonable price target for Corn to reach this year. If we do see a drought 
pattern develop over a major corn-producing region of the world, as the Saturn–Neptune conjunction 
suggests is possible, then 601.00 +/– 29.00 becomes a valid price target. 
GEOCOSMICS 
Two major geocosmic signatures in 2026 could significantly influence the Corn market. The 
first is the Saturn–Neptune conjunction occurring on February 20, 2026. Like other grains, both 
Saturn–Neptune conjunctions and oppositions have coincided with peaks in grain markets. Since 
1950, there have been two conjunctions and two oppositions. In these previous instances, Corn 
has formed an important crest (18- and 9-year crests) within 8–15 months of the exact aspect. 
Measuring from February 2026, eight months takes us to October 2026, while 15 months takes 
us to July 2027. 
The second major aspect for Corn is Jupiter forming a waxing trine to Saturn. In the previous 
three instances of this multi-pass aspect, going back to 1966, Corn has formed significant highs 
during the central time band of this aspect or within four months of the first or last passage. These 
include the 9-year high in August 1966, the 9-year drought high of July 1988, and the June 2008 
9-year high. The central time band of the coming Jupiter–Saturn waxing trine is August 2026–July 
2027. Also, keep in mind that this aspect is occurring with both planets located in fire signs. 
There is a planet/sign combination that has been strongly correlated to crests in the grain 
markets: Ceres transiting the signs of Gemini and Cancer. For those who are unfamiliar, Ceres is 
a dwarf planet that was the goddess of agriculture, grain, and the harvest in Roman mythology. 
Looking back to 1966, Corn has formed at least a 33-month cycle top, or a high followed by at least 
a 20% decline, more than 90% of the time when Ceres was between 5° Gemini and 26° Cancer. 
Ceres enters Gemini in May 2026 and will not exit the sign of Cancer until May 2027 due to its 
retrograde motion. 
166

--- PAGE 171 ---
CONCLUSION 
Corn looks to have successfully retested its August 2024 low during 2025 and now appears 
poised to muster a rally in 2026 and possibly lasting into 2027. Closing above the 27-month moving 
average on a monthly basis is essential to confirming this bias. If Corn can do that, taking out the Feb-
ruary 2025 high of 504.50 would then set a technical uptrend of higher highs and higher lows. This 
would then open the door for Corn to reach our conservative price target of 551.00 +/– 25.00. Should 
weather become an issue this year, then 601.00 +/– 29.00 is certainly achievable in 2026. 
Based on geocosmics, the best time for Corn to reach these targets is in the second half of 
2026—specifically, September +/– 1 month and then November 20 +/– 2 weeks. It should be noted 
that many of the long-term aspects coinciding with a potential crest in Corn are still in effect in the 
first half of 2027. As such, a high that occurs in 2026 might be followed by a significant decline into 
a 33-month cycle low (due November 2026–November 2027) before another rally takes Corn into a 
more important high in early 2027. 
167

--- PAGE 172 ---
W HEAT 
REVIEW 
Wheat was by far the weakest of the three grain markets in 2025, but that was not a complete sur-
prise. Last year’s Forecast 2025 book: “For this reason, my bias is that a 36-month cycle low is still 
ahead of us,” and “… Wheat doesn’t have to drop appreciably below the August 2024 low of 493.50 
when this 36-month cycle does form. It could be just a double bottom or a retest of that low.” Wheat 
did just that by hitting 492.25 in August 2025 and is now rallying above critical moving averages as 
we close the book on 2025. 
Wheat Cycles Start/Progress as of 1/1/26 Next Due 
18-year August 2016, 10th year 2034 +/– 2 yr 
9-year August 2024, 2nd year 2033 +/– 2 yr 
36-month August 2024, 17th month December 2026–April 2028 
THE 18-YEAR CYCLE 
The longest cycle we measure in Wheat is the 18-year cycle. It has a range of 16–20 years, mak-
ing it the most reliable long-term cycle of all three grain markets. This 18-year cycle last bottomed in 
August 2016 at 359.50 and is next due to bottom in 2034 +/– 2 years. The year 2026 will begin the 10th 
year of the current cycle. So far, Wheat has satisfied one of the criteria of a bullish cycle by trading 
above the previous 18-year cycle crest of 1272.75 when it reached a high of 1363.50 in March 2022 fol-
lowing Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, which is a major wheat-producing region of the world. The second 
criterion would be making new highs in the second 9-year cycle phase (which we could be in). For the 
current 18-year cycle, the simple Mid-Cycle Price (MCP) target, which represents the midpoint projec-
tion of the cycle’s expected price range, is 1,395.75 +/– 122.25. The 1272.75 high in 2022 is already 
within that range, which raises the question: has this 18-year cycle already topped out? 
Looking at the historical data, Wheat’s 18-year cycles tend to form as double tops to each other. 
When considering this, the March 2022 high of 1363.50 could technically be considered a double 
top to the previous 18-year cycle crest of 1272.75, even though it was almost $1 higher. I think this 
adds to the argument that we probably have seen the high in Wheat for the remainder of this decade, 
barring a black swan type of event (nuclear war?). 
THE 9-YEAR CYCLE 
Wheat’s long-term 18-year cycle predominantly breaks down into two 9-year cycle phases. The 
9-year cycle last bottomed with the 18-year cycle in August 2016. It was next due to bottom in 2025 
+/– 2 years, which makes the August 2024 low of 493.50 and the October 2025 low of 492.25 both 
candidates for this bottom. I have adjusted my bias slightly and now consider August 2024 to be the 
start of this new 9-year cycle due to the fact that it formed within two weeks of the Jupiter–Saturn 
waxing square that took place on August 19, 2024. Generally, longer-term planetary aspects coincide 
with longer-term cycle tops and bottoms. In the case of Wheat, this would line up. October 2025 
would constitute a successful retest or double-bottom chart formation relative to the August 2024 
low, even though it was lower by a little over one penny. 
168

--- PAGE 173 ---
If 2024 is indeed the correct starting year for this current 9-year cycle, 2026 will mark the second 
year of the second 9-year cycle phase. This is where it gets interesting. Since 1885 (yes, you read that 
right), six out of eight second-phase 9-year cycles have topped out in years 2–4 following the low. 
Since 1960, all four second 9-year phases have topped in the third year. This puts 2026 and 2027 in 
the crosshairs for when, historically, a 9-year crest could form. 
Further, the gains of these 9-year cycles have ranged from 25% to 437%. If we throw out the 
outliers, we have a more normal range of 43% to 154%. This yields a possible price target for a crest 
of 704.00–1251.00. A normal Fibonacci price target for a corrective high would be 826.00–1031.00 
and overlaps the price target just given. We will therefore use 928.00 +/– 103.00 as a possible target 
for the crest of this 9-year cycle. Based on historical precedent, this crest could even occur this year. 
THE 36-MONTH CYCLE 
The 9-year cycle typically breaks down into three 36-month cycle phases. This 36-month cycle 
carries an orb of eight months, which makes its range 26–44 months. It last bottomed with the 9-year 
cycle in August 2024. The previous two 36-month cycles bottomed in April 2019 and August 2022 
and were 32 and 40 months long, respectively. The low in August 2024 was only 24 months from 
the August 2022 low, so it was a little short of the normal range for this cycle. This is okay, however, 
because when longer cycles (such as the 9-year cycle) come due, shorter cycles distort about 50% 
of the time. Admittedly, the October 2025 low would be a better fit here time-wise, as it would have 
been 38 months from August 2022. However, the October bottom did not have a major long-term 
aspect associated with it, as the August 2024 low did, which is why I favor it over the more recent 
October 2025 low. 
Regardless of the starting point, this will be the first 36-month cycle phase in a new 9-year cycle. 
First phases in any cycle are usually bullish, and this is indeed the case for Wheat. The average gain 
for a 36-month cycle that is beginning a new 9-year cycle is 84%, with a range of 57%–127%. The 
average time it takes to reach this crest is 26 months, with a range of 17–34 months. Using the August 
2024 low of 493.50, a 57% gain would imply a Wheat price of about 775.00, with an 84% gain reach-
ing about 908.00. Notice that this latter price falls into the possible price target for a 9-year crest given 
169

--- PAGE 174 ---
earlier. The 17th month from August 2024 is January 2026, while 26 months is October 2026. Taking 
all this into consideration, I think Wheat has an excellent chance of at least hitting 775.00 this year 
and doing so before October 2026. 
While my bias is bullish heading into 2026, it should be noted that the start of this 36-month cycle 
has yet to be fully confirmed. It will take prices closing above the 9- and 18-month moving averages, 
with the 9-month average rising above the 18-month. Currently, those averages are around 525.00 
and 550.00, respectively. Wheat is testing the 18-month moving average at the time of this writing, 
so it would not take much additional strength to achieve initial confirmation. However, until this fully 
happens, any monthly (or even weekly) close below the double-bottom lows around 493.00 going 
forward would signal that the 36-month cycle has not bottomed and would be due by April 2026, 
which would be the 44th month from August 2022. Any new low after April 2026 would require 
revisiting the long-term cycle labeling. 
GEOCOSMICS 
There are two important geocosmic signatures taking place in 2026 that could influence Wheat 
prices. The first is the Saturn–Neptune conjunction on February 20, 2026. The section on weather 
noted that both Saturn–Neptune conjunctions and oppositions have coincided with peaks in grain 
markets. Since 1950, there have been two conjunctions and two oppositions. In these instances, 
Wheat has formed an important crest within 22 months of the exact aspect. Measuring from February 
2026, 22 months takes us out to December 2027. Because this window is somewhat longer than that 
of the other grain markets surrounding this aspect, it is conceivable that we see either a double-top 
pattern to a high made earlier or a case of bearish intermarket divergence—in which all the grains 
peak in their respective time bands for a meaningful crest, but Wheat makes a marginal new high not 
confirmed by the other grain markets later. 
The second important aspect for Wheat is Jupiter forming a waxing trine to Saturn. In the previ-
ous three instances of this multi-pass aspect, going back to 1966, Wheat has formed significant highs 
during the central time band of this aspect. These include the final high in 1966 before a 40% decline 
into an 18-year low, the 18-month high and subsequent low that preceded the sharp move higher dur-
ing the 1988 drought year, the 9-year drought high of July 1988, and the 18-year high that occurred 
in 2008. The central time band of the coming Jupiter–Saturn waxing trine is August 2026–July 2027. 
Also, keep in mind that this aspect is occurring with both planets located in fire signs. 
In addition to the above signatures, Wheat also seems to respond to Jupiter in a waxing trine 
to Neptune. This aspect will be exact on July 20, 2026. In most cases, a tradable low has occurred 
within six weeks of this aspect in the Wheat market. This makes June 20–August 20 a potential bot-
tom in Wheat. This could be a simple primary cycle, but it also falls in the time band when the second 
12-month cycle would be due. 
There is yet another planet/sign combination that has strongly correlated with crests in the grain 
markets: Ceres transiting the signs of Gemini and Cancer. For those unfamiliar, Ceres is a dwarf 
planet that was the goddess of agriculture, grain, and the harvest in Roman mythology. Looking back 
to 1966, the high that unfolds has typically been either a 9-year cycle crest or a retracement high fol-
lowed by at least a 30% decline. This has occurred in about 75% of the cases when Ceres was in either 
Gemini or Cancer. Ceres will transit Gemini from May 2026 through May 2027. 
170

--- PAGE 175 ---
CONCLUSION 
Wheat appears to have secured a double bottom to the August 2024 low in October 2025. If it 
can confirm this by closing above the 18-month moving average (it is close to doing so), and if the 
9-month moving average can cross above the 18-month, then we will assume Wheat is in the first 
36-month cycle phase of a new 9-year cycle. Because this is the first phase—typically the most 
bullish—I think 2026 could be a good year for Wheat prices; however, since this is the second 9-year 
cycle phase, the rally should ultimately prove corrective in nature, possibly similar to what transpired 
following the 2009 low (see monthly chart). Geocosmics indicate that we should look for this high 
within 22 months of the Saturn–Neptune conjunction taking place in February 2026. Using other 
geocosmic signatures, we can narrow this time band to August 2026–May 2027. 
The price target for this crest is ultimately 928.00 +/– 103.00. Whether we can reach that level 
in 2026 remains to be seen, but I do think 700.00–775.00 is a safe objective for this coming year. If 
at any point Wheat experiences a weekly close below 493.50, these upside targets will have to be 
adjusted, as this would signal that Wheat is not in a new 36-month and 9-year cycle. In this case, a 
low would be due by April 2026. 
171

--- PAGE 176 ---
SOYBEANS 
REVIEW 
Soybeans followed much the same path as Corn in 2025, except they demonstrated more strength 
by holding up reasonably well into May and June before ultimately falling to a low in August. This 
low could also be construed as a retest of the August 2024 low, with Soybeans beginning to flash 
some bullish price signals as we close out 2025. Last year, it was stated, “If Soybeans can start to 
confirm this (first closing above 1069.50 and then the 36-week moving average at around 1100.00), 
then 2025 looks like it could be a good year for Soybean prices. Watch for 1140.00 to provide initial 
resistance.” It took longer than anticipated, but Soybeans are confirming the above statement with a 
rally to 1150.50 (January contract) at the time of this writing in November. 
Soybean Cycles Start/Progress as of 1/1/26 Next Due 
17-year May 2019, 7th year 2036 +/– 3 yr 
8.5-year May 2019, 7th year 2026–2029 
5.5-year August 2024, 2nd year October 2028–December 2031 
34-month August 2024, 17th month September 2026–March 2028 
17-month August 2024, 17th month October 2025–April 2026 
THE 17-YEAR CYCLE 
The longest cycle we measure in Soybeans is the 17-year cycle. It has a range of 14–20 years and 
last bottomed in May 2019 at 791.00. The year 2026 will begin the seventh year of this 17-year cycle, 
which is not due to bottom again until 2036 +/– 3 years. The high so far occurred in the third year 
(2022) at 1784.00. This was essentially a double top to the previous 17-year cycle crest and all-time 
high of 1794.75 set back in 2012. The MCP price target for a bullish 17-year cycle is 2180.50 +/– 
164.00. While this is a lofty price objective, unless Soybeans drop below 791.00, there is still plenty 
of time in this current 17-year cycle for Soybeans to potentially reach this target. 
I am expecting this 17-year-long-term cycle to eventually resolve bullishly in Soybeans. This 
means we would not expect a crest to form before 2027. Having said that, we must respect the fact 
that the high so far occurred in the third year of the cycle and, like Corn, was a double top to the previ-
ous 17-year cycle crest. Until 1784.00 is taken out, there is a chance that the top is in, and this 17-year 
cycle could turn bearish. An early warning that this could be transpiring would be a solid monthly 
close below the uptrend line depicted on the monthly Soybean chart. 
THE 8.5-YEAR AND 5.5-YEAR CYCLES 
The 8.5-year cycle is the two-phase pattern of the 17-year cycle. It has an orb of 1.5 years and 
last bottomed with the 17-year cycle in May 2019. It is next due to bottom between 2026 and 2029, 
so we are entering the orb of this cycle this year. Right now, I favor a more bullish tone for Soy -
beans in 2026, but with ever-present bearish fundamental headwinds (Brazil’s production capacity) 
and a president who does not seem able to make nice with the world’s largest importer of Soybeans 
(China), I cannot rule out the possibility that Soybeans could break lower into an 8.5-year low even 
this year. Again, an early indication that a more bearish picture is developing would be a monthly 
close below the uptrend line depicted on the monthly Soybean chart. 
172

--- PAGE 177 ---
The 5.5-year cycle is the three-phase pattern of the 17-year cycle. Like the 8.5-year cycle, it also 
has an orb of 1.5 years, which is somewhat long for a cycle of this length. I believe this is due to the 
fact that this 5.5-year cycle can also appear as the two-phase pattern of the 8.5-year cycle. When this 
happens, these cycles tend to form at the shorter end of the expected cycle length. The 5.5-year cycle 
last bottomed with the 17-year cycle in May 2019. It was next due to bottom in January 2025 +/– 18 
months, and last year’s Forecast 2025 book highlighted why the August 2024 low of 936.25 was 
probably it. Since that low, Soybeans have not done much to convincingly confirm this bias; how -
ever, some positive technical signals are beginning to emerge at the time of this writing in November. 
Should August 2024 fully verify as a 5.5-year low, a likely price target for a crest is 1361.00 +/– 
100.00. Soybeans could easily reach this target in 2026 if any hint of hot and dry weather emerges 
during either the Brazil or U.S. growing seasons. 
THE 34-MONTH CYCLE 
The 34-month cycle is the backbone of the Soybean market. There are usually two 34-month 
cycles in a 5.5-year cycle and three 34-month cycles in an 8.5-year cycle. The 34-month cycle carries 
a 9-month orb and last bottomed in August 2024. This would have been the second 34-month cycle 
measured off the May 2019 low, which is why it was probably a 5.5-year cycle low as well. The 
glaring problem here is the lack of upside follow-through that Soybeans have experienced since bot-
toming in August 2024. The choppy trading range that has developed may be signaling that this third 
34-month cycle is destined to become bearish by falling below 936.50. Should that happen, it would 
signal that Soybeans are almost assuredly falling to an 8.5-year low instead. As you can see, 2026 is 
shaping up to be a pivotal year in determining the intermediate trend for this market. 
Regardless of whether this current 34-month cycle resolves bullishly or bearishly, further upside 
in Soybean prices is likely in 2026 before possibly topping out. Supporting this thesis is the fact that 
the smallest gains of 34-month cycles—excluding those that occurred just before a 17-year low— 
were 26%. A 26% increase off the 936.50 low would be 1260.00. It is interesting that this is right at 
the bottom of the price range given for a possible 5.5-year crest. Unless this market is far more bear-
ish than I think it is, we will use 1260.00 as a comfortable price target in 2026. 
173

--- PAGE 178 ---
The 34-month cycles break down into two phases of 17 months or three phases of 11 months. 
Due to the choppy, range-bound trade over the last year, identifying the breakdown of this 34-month 
cycle is proving difficult. The best fit at the moment is that the low of August 6, 2025, marked an 
11-month cycle low. It formed 12 months after the August 2024 low, so it was right on time. This 
implies that this 34-month cycle is breaking down as a three-phase pattern with the next 11-month 
cycle low due between May and September 2026. However, we could still see a 17-month cycle low 
transpire between October 2025 and April 2026. I particularly like the idea of seeing a sharp decline 
into the spring of 2026, right before the U.S. planting/growing season is set to begin. 
GEOCOSMICS 
As with Corn and Wheat, there are two major geocosmic signatures taking place in 2026 that 
could influence the Soybean market. The first is the Saturn–Neptune conjunction occurring on Febru-
ary 20, 2026. Recall from the section on weather that both Saturn–Neptune conjunctions and opposi-
tions have coincided with peaks in grain markets. Since 1950, there have been two conjunctions and 
two oppositions. In these previous instances, Soybeans formed a 17-year crest during the first three 
and an 8.5-year crest during the last one, all within 13 months or less of the exact aspect. Measuring 
from February 2026, 13 months takes us to March 2027. 
The second major aspect for Soybeans is Jupiter forming a waxing trine to Saturn. In the previous 
three instances of this multi-pass aspect going back to 1966, Soybeans have formed significant highs (and 
one low) during the central time band of this aspect or within three months of the first or last passage. 
These include the 8.5-year high and low of July and December 2008, the 17-year high in June 1988, and 
the 5.5-year high in July 1966. The central time band of the coming Jupiter–Saturn waxing trine is August 
2026–July 2027. Also, keep in mind that this aspect is occurring with both planets located in fire signs. 
In addition to the above signatures, Soybeans also seem to respond to Jupiter in a waxing trine 
to Neptune. This aspect will be exact on July 20, 2026. While not all turns around this aspect have 
coincided with long-term cycle tops or bottoms, they have often been retests of major highs and/or 
lows before the new primary trend reasserts itself. What is notable is that these secondary tops and 
bottoms generally occur within four weeks of the exact aspect, with one occurrence taking place eight 
weeks later. This makes June 20–August 20 a potential time to look for a reversal in Soybeans. 
Finally, Ceres transiting the signs of Gemini and Cancer is a planet/sign combination that has 
been strongly correlated with crests in the grain markets. For those who are unfamiliar, Ceres is a 
dwarf planet that was the goddess of agriculture, grain, and the harvest in Roman mythology. Look-
ing back to 1966, Soybeans have formed at least a 34-month cycle top—or a high that was followed 
by at least a 20% decline—more than 70% of the time when Ceres was between 4° Gemini and 27° 
Cancer. Ceres enters Gemini in May 2026 and will not exit the sign of Cancer until May 2027 due to 
its retrograde motion. 
CONCLUSION 
Soybeans showed the most relative strength of all the grains during 2025 and have now broken 
above a year-long trading range as we near the end of 2025. This is somewhat of a conundrum, 
considering that China has imported a paltry number of U.S. Soybeans during the 2025 marketing 
campaign due to trade tensions and high tariffs. At the time of this writing, there is talk of a deal that 
would require China to purchase 12 MMT during the final few months of 2025, but whether that hap-
pens remains to be seen. 
174

--- PAGE 179 ---
Nonetheless, we have to respect the price action, and it is signaling that Soybeans may want to 
move higher in 2026. This could be the market getting out in front of a significant trade deal, or perhaps 
the geocosmic picture is simply indicating that it is time for this market to rally. In any event, clearing 
1140.00 on a monthly closing basis would give Soybeans a very good shot at hitting 1260.00 +/– 20.00 
in 2026. However, should dry weather develop during the Brazilian growing season (usually October 
into March of the following year) or the U.S. growing season (typically May–September), 1361.00 +/– 
100.00 is not out of line. It should be noted that while this is a forecast for 2026, it will include portions 
of both the 2026 and 2027 growing seasons for Brazil. Should Soybeans fall below the uptrend line 
mentioned earlier and/or below 936.25, these upside targets would become obsolete, with Soybeans 
likely heading down to test the 17-year low of 791.00 instead. That is not my bias, but it is a possibility 
considering the less-than-friendly trade dynamics between China and the United States. 
My preferred time band for a possible crest in 2026 is September 15–November 25. This may 
also be a double top or a retest of an August high, as there will be a large collection of Venus aspects 
taking place August 10–21. However, a crest at this time may prove to be the first 34-month cycle 
high before a healthy correction and then a continued rally into early 2027, when the geocosmics 
say we could see a multi-year top develop by March. And remember, this will be at the heart of yet 
another Brazilian growing season, as mentioned above. 
THREE–STAR CRITICAL REVERSAL DATES FOR GRAINS 2026 
The following is a list of three-star geocosmic critical reversal dates (CRDs) used in MMA’s 
market-timing calculations for grains. You may also include the CRDs given for the stock market, as 
others not listed here may appear there. Allow a three-day orb for a cycle to culminate during these 
periods. The CRDs are mostly valid when a market is in the time band for a primary, half-primary, or 
major cycle crest or trough. Look to buy cycle lows that may unfold or sell crests if prices rally into 
these CRD zones. 
January 13 
February 17 (allow one week, especially for Wheat) 
March 6–9 
April 23–24 
May 25 
July 21 (may need a 10-day orb) 
August 10–11 
August 21 
August 30 
September 11–14 
October 6–7 
October 20–21 
November 13 
December 10 
175

--- PAGE 180 ---
FA VORABLE TIMES, CHALLENGING TIMES FOR 2026 
by Pouyan Zolfagharnia 
The following is a list of “Favorable Times” and “Challenging Times” for planning in 2026. The 
favorable times indicate favorable periods to schedule important meetings, social gatherings (such as 
parties and weddings), or any event you want to proceed smoothly and harmoniously. The challeng-
ing times are just the opposite: tensions and stress tend to be higher than normal, and you may find 
it best to avoid scheduling social events and important meetings during these periods. All dates are 
based on Eastern Time (ET). This means the beginning and ending dates may be one day later in the 
Far East. 
FA VORABLE TIMES CHALLENGING TIMES 
January 14-20 December 24, 2025-January 13, 2026 
March 5-10* January 20-March 4* 
April 28-29 March 10-April 27* 
May 26-27 April 30-May 25 
June 8-16 May 28-June 7 
July 14-August 10* June 17-July 13* 
August 30-31 August 11-29 
September 26-29 September 1-25 
November 25-December 1 September 30-November 26* ** 
December 16-22 December 2-15 
December 31-January 7, 2027 December 2-15 
December 23-30 
*Indicates that this period overlaps with Mercury retrograde. If on the “Favorable” side, it is fine for a 
party, but if on the “Challenging” side, it is probably not for a commitment, agreement, or sale. 
**Indicates this period overlaps with Venus retrograde. If on the “Challenging” side, be careful of 
cosmetic surgery or purchasing expensive goods. 
Of course, not every day in a “Favorable Times” period will necessarily be good, nor will every 
day in the “Challenging Times” period necessarily be bad. For help in choosing specific dates for an 
important event, please consult a professional astrologer. 
In 2026, two solar eclipses will occur: February 17 at 2849°’Aquarius (North Node Eclipse) and 
August 12 at 2002°’ Leo (South Node Eclipse). There will also be two lunar eclipses: March 3 (12° 
Virgo 53’) and August 28 (4° Pisces 54’). In my experience, a North Node Eclipse tends to be more 
favorable than a South Node one. Furthermore, it is not wise to plan a major event such as a wed -
ding or to open a new business during the two weeks between a lunar and solar eclipse, or vice versa, 
which may also coincide with an otherwise “favorable time,” as shown above. 
176

--- PAGE 181 ---
MERCURY RETROGRADE PERIODS IN 2026 
There will be three Mercury retrograde periods between February 26 and November 13, 2026. 
They are: February 26–March 20 (2233°’ Pisces to 829°’ Pisces); June 29–July 23 (2615°’ Cancer to 
1618°’ Cancer); and October 24–November 13 (2058°’ Scorpio to 502°’ Scorpio). 
During 2025, Mercury retrograde occurred in the fire signs of Aries, Leo, and Sagittarius. This 
created an atmosphere of exuberance, impulsiveness, and overconfidence that was mirrored in world 
affairs and the financial markets. Fire retrogrades are quick to spark bold proclamations and rash 
decisions, often with outsized consequences. A striking example came in April 2025, when President 
Trump’s sudden declaration of “Liberation Day” rattled markets around the world. That announce -
ment, made without the tempering of detail or diplomacy, sent shockwaves through global exchanges 
and highlighted how Mercury retrograde in fire can encourage impulsive statements with dramatic 
market repercussions. On June 13, we also witnessed Israel’s surprise attack on Iran, commencing the 
Twelve-Day War between the two nations. Mercury was not retrograde at that time, but it occurred 
in the year when the Trickster was retrograde in fire signs, thus highlighting the fiery nature of deci-
sions in 2025. 
In 2026, the retrogrades move into the water signs of Cancer, Scorpio, and Pisces, bringing an 
entirely different tone. Water retrogrades emphasize emotion, empathy, and sensitivity, shifting the 
focus away from impulsive confidence toward a more reactive and subjective climate. The world is 
already deeply embroiled in conflict on multiple fronts, and the prevalence of social media ensures 
that images of suffering and human cost reach global audiences instantly and relentlessly. Against 
this backdrop, Mercury retrograde in water signs will encourage leaders, institutions, and populations 
to view global events through an emotional lens, often appealing to sympathy, compassion, and even 
guilt. A more melancholic undertone is therefore likely to accompany this period. 
With retrogrades in water signs, all communication also comes under the influence of the rulers 
of these signs: the Moon, Neptune, and Pluto. The Moon will shape discourse with sentimentality and 
national pride, stirring populations with messages that evoke nostalgia, a sense of belonging, and a 
longing for security. Neptune brings ambiguity, fog, na
ïveté, and the risk of outright deception; com-
munications under its influence may be poetic or idealistic but often lack clarity or concrete detail, 
leaving room for confusion and misinterpretation. Pluto adds intensity, secrecy, and power struggles. 
Under its shadow, words may carry hidden agendas, veiled threats, or attempts at manipulation. 
Taken together, this suggests that communications from world leaders during 2026 may be emotion-
ally charged, deliberately ambiguous, and, in some cases, deceptive or obscuring of truth. 
The shift will be most visible in negotiations and geopolitics. In place of fiery, declarative rheto-
ric, discussions are more likely to be framed as pleas for understanding, emotional appeals, and 
heightened sensitivities. This introduces fragility into diplomacy. Talks may stall or unravel not 
because of the substance of the proposals but because of perceived slights, mistrust, or emotional 
overreactions. Nations directly involved in warfare or humanitarian crises will find their narratives 
amplified, with sympathetic responses flowing more quickly, but also with polarization increasing 
when emotions cloud rational compromise. Leaders who thrive on emotional rhetoric may gain trac-
tion in this climate, but they also risk backlash if sentiment is not supported by practical solutions. 
177

--- PAGE 182 ---
Financial markets will not be immune to these shifts. In 2025, exuberance and speculative 
confidence, buoyed by Mercury’s retrogrades in fire signs, pushed many indices to fresh all-time 
highs. In 2026, however, the mood is likely to be more melancholic, with sentiment overtaking 
logic. Investors and traders may find themselves swayed less by data and fundamentals and more 
by images and narratives circulating in real time. Emotional overreactions will become more com -
mon, creating sharp swings in prices and fragile confidence. This is a dangerous environment for 
markets, since volatility will not necessarily be rooted in measurable risk but rather in the shifting 
tides of collective sentiment. 
The transition from fire to water in Mercury retrograde marks a shift from impulsive bravado to 
emotional vulnerability. Where 2025 rewarded boldness and risk-taking, 2026 is more likely to pun-
ish those who ignore the emotional weight of words and images. In this climate, calls for empathy, 
charity, and sacrifice will grow louder, yet the potential for overreaction, mistrust, and deception will 
also intensify. Mercury retrograde in water signs does not resolve conflict, but it does reframe how 
the world experiences and reacts to it. Leaders and markets alike will be tested on their ability to 
navigate this heightened sensitivity without losing sight of clarity, rational judgment, and truth. 
Writers and speakers will find their words steeped in emotion, memory, and subjectivity. Lan -
guage will be colored by Neptune’s ambiguity and poetic allure, the Moon’s sentiment and national 
pride, and Pluto’s intensity and undercurrents of secrecy or transformation. This atmosphere favors 
storytelling that is nostalgic, compassionate, and deeply reflective, and it may draw individuals back 
to old or forgotten projects that now beckon to be completed or reimagined. It also opens the door to 
more artistic and imaginative expressions, with creativity flowing in symbolic, intuitive, and often 
dreamlike forms. At the same time, there is a heightened risk of ambiguity, manipulation, and emo -
tional excess that is likely to further polarize humanity through social media platforms. Audiences 
will respond more viscerally, making words feel heavier and more consequential. The best commu -
nicators will be those who can authentically channel this emotional tide, giving voice to vulnerability 
and unspoken truths without losing clarity or integrity. 
In financial markets, Mercury retrograde is known as the “Trickster” because, during this cycle, 
support and resistance levels are often broken—only to reverse right back again. These are “fake 
out” periods, marked by more than the usual number of false buy and sell signals. This coincides 
with contradictory political and economic data and announcements that can lead to sudden whipsaws 
in financial markets. For this reason, our motto under Mercury retrograde is to “take profits sooner 
rather than later.” If not, your profits could suddenly vanish before reaching your price or time target. 
A quick, modest profit is better than a loss during these periods. Mercury retrograde can still favor 
aggressive short-term trading over intervals of perhaps one to four days. Also, any market that does 
not complete a market cycle within four days of Mercury retrograde is likely to do so within two days 
of the midpoint of the retrograde cycle (when the Sun conjoins Mercury). This can be a useful leading 
market-timing indicator. 
Mercury retrograde periods are notorious for bringing confusion, delays, and disruptions to the 
flow of everyday affairs. It is wise to exercise caution when signing contracts, finalizing agreements, 
or making binding commitments, as details are more easily overlooked and people may change their 
minds. In business, one often sees a spike in missed appointments, schedule changes, and outright 
cancellations. Technology and communication systems are also vulnerable—phones, computers, and 
networks seem to “go on the blink” more often, and misunderstandings in emails or phone calls 
178

--- PAGE 183 ---
become more common. The general advice is to be precise in communication, double-check instruc-
tions, and repeat back critical details to confirm mutual understanding. Avoid debates or confronta -
tions surrounding sensitive topics during this period. In 2026, individuals born under water signs, 
or those with Mercury retrograde in water signs, should be especially mindful, as they may be more 
receptive to these retrograde periods—particularly when Mercury retrograde passes through their 
Sun sign. 
Yet Mercury retrograde is not purely negative. These cycles offer rare opportunities for review, 
reflection, and recalibration. They are excellent times to go back over old work, revise and edit writ-
ing, return to unfinished projects, or revisit past conversations and negotiations with a fresh perspec-
tive. I find this to be a great time for research. Lost or forgotten information often resurfaces, and old 
contacts may reappear, allowing for closure, reconciliation, or renewed collaboration. For creative 
people, retrogrades can bring bursts of insight by forcing the mind to approach problems from new 
angles. In some cases, delays and cancellations create the space to pause, reflect, and avoid mistakes 
that might otherwise result from rushing forward. 
Used consciously, Mercury retrograde is a time to slow down, reflect, and realign. It is less 
suited to launching new ventures or charging ahead and more supportive of tying up loose ends, 
correcting errors, or unearthing hidden insights. By respecting its rhythm, people can transform what 
is often seen as a disruptive period into one that strengthens clarity, creativity, and preparedness for 
the forward motion that follows. 
179

--- PAGE 184 ---
VENUS RETROGRADE PERIOD IN 2026 
There will be one Venus retrograde period in effect in 2026, from October 3 to November 13, 
2026. Venus will begin its retrograde motion at 829°’ Scorpio and move back to 2251°’ Libra on 
November 13, before returning to direct motion. The dance of Venus through the signs of Scorpio 
and Libra will have the greatest impact on individuals with strong placements in these signs, as well 
as on those with Venus retrograde in their natal charts. It is also worth noting that Venus retrogrades 
occur in nearly the same sign and degree every eight years. 
Venus, the goddess of love and beauty, traditionally rules harmony, attraction, wealth, and the 
arts, bringing balance and drawing people and nations into accord. In mundane astrology, she also 
shapes the tone of diplomacy, treaties, and alliances, while in finance, she governs currencies, bank-
ing, prosperity, and the appetite for luxury. When Venus turns retrograde, however, these themes 
become unsettled: alliances strain, markets question value, currencies wobble, and societies reassess 
what they truly cherish. It is a time when appearances fade, trust is tested, and both nations and indi-
viduals are called to re-evaluate what is worth keeping and what must be released. 
Whenever a planet is retrograde, the time is generally not favorable for initiating activities in the 
areas that planet rules. Therefore, October 3 to November 13 is not conducive to significant changes 
in appearance, relationships, or the purchase of goods or services intended to enhance one’s image. 
Major changes in hairstyle, cosmetic surgery (including procedures on the face or other areas meant 
to improve attractiveness), breast or lip implants, and liposuction are NOT generally advised during 
this time. 
Furthermore, one is advised against making important purchases for home or office furnishings 
or undertaking major renovations in one’s home, office, or building without first taking the time to 
make sure the same products or services are available elsewhere at a lower cost. With Venus retro -
grade in Scorpio, one might be prone to overleveraging with debt, but it may be wise to do a little 
homework before taking on debt or a leveraged position during this time. 
Venus retrograde is a time when lovers from the past may re-emerge, as a sense of nostalgia about 
previous relationships comes into one’s consciousness. However, these may not work out in the long 
run, so it is best to simply enjoy them for what they are and reminisce about the good times in the past 
without weaving complex webs regarding a future together. 
What Venus retrograde is excellent for, however, is reflection and re-evaluation. Old lovers or 
friends may resurface, giving a chance for closure or reconciliation. People often find themselves 
reassessing what—and who—they truly value. In finances, it is a fruitful time to review spending 
habits, renegotiate agreements, or reconsider investments. In creative and artistic pursuits, it can 
bring a revisiting of old projects or a reimagining of past inspirations. We saw an echo of this reflec-
tive quality in April 2025, when President Trump’s sudden “Liberation Day” announcement, in which 
he was reassessing the U.S. economic relationship with “friends and foes,” sent markets into turmoil. 
The declaration carried the dramatic, impulsive fire-sign tone of that year’s Mercury and Venus ret-
rogrades in Aries, forcing investors and nations alike to pause, reconsider the true value of assets, 
and reassess the relationships and alliances underpinning financial and geopolitical stability. In this 
way, Venus retrogrades often serve less as moments of dramatic outward change and more as turning 
180

--- PAGE 185 ---
points of reassessment, where both personal and collective values are tested and redefined. Notably, 
significant lows formed in most markets as Venus and Mercury stationed direct. 
In financial markets, Venus retrograde periods often coincide with a difficult and unpredictable 
monetary or fiscal environment. It is not unusual to see central banks or government leadership make 
major policy changes, from accommodative to tightening, or vice versa. Thus, trends prior to the 
retrograde will frequently reverse during this time. With Scorpio ruling over debt and Venus ruling 
money, it should come as no surprise to find that significant cyclical reversals tend to take place dur-
ing this signature. 
The last time Venus was retrograde in Scorpio–Libra was October 5–November 16, 2018. The 
18-year trough in U.S. T-Notes and U.K. 10-year Gilts formed on October 8 and 10, 2018, respec -
tively. Currencies are also affected, most noteworthy being Bitcoin’s four-year trough, which formed 
on December 15, 2018, a month after Venus went direct (but within its shadow). Even in the prior 
Venus retrograde that commenced October 8, 2010, Bitcoin fell 83%, from $0.06 on October 7 to 
$0.01 on October 8 (another four-year cycle trough, and the last time it would see that valuation!). 
Bitcoin was back up 800% to $0.09 by October 11, 2010. These patterns are worth noting, as the four-
year cycle window for Bitcoin will be in effect again during 2026. 
In terms of stock markets, Venus retrograde and direct stations are two of the most consistent 
correlations to primary and greater cycles in the Dow Jones Industrial Average, using an orb of 12 
trading days. Within 12 trading days, the Venus retrograde station period has an 80% correlation with 
primary or greater cycles. The Venus direct station has a 75% correlation with primary or greater 
cycles within ten trading days.
1 Perhaps the most noteworthy of the Venus retrograde cycles in Scor-
pio was the October 10, 2002, station, which coincided with the NASDAQ bottom on October 8, 
2002—a long-term trough marking the aftermath of the dot-com collapse, during which the index 
had fallen by 78%. 
Looking back across the last eight Venus retrograde cycles in Scorpio-Libra (1962-2018), a 
repeating pattern emerges that reveals how the traditional energy of Venus weakens, particularly 
while in Scorpio, its traditional sign of detriment, allowing more Martian themes of conflict, scan -
dal, and upheaval to dominate. Instead of harmony, beauty, and diplomacy, these periods have been 
marked by revelations and crises—whether in the form of scandal, such as WikiLeaks (2010), the 
Iran-Contra affair (1986), or the heightened #MeToo revelations (2018); outbreaks of political 
violence and murder, from the Bali bombings (2002) to the killing of prominent journalist Jamal 
Khashoggi in the Saudi embassy, and the mail bomb scares (2018); or broader confrontations such as 
the Cuban Missile Crisis (1962). 
One of the most consistent themes that re-emerges during these retrogrades is conflict and/or 
peace negotiations involving Israel. In 1962, global anxieties were heightened by Cold War tensions. 
Still, in subsequent cycles—1978, 1986, 1994, 2002, 2010, and again in 2018—we repeatedly see 
Israel at the forefront of world news, whether in the form of violent escalations or peace talks. We 
have seen glimpses of light, such as the Egypt-Israel peace talks (1978) and the Israel-Jordan peace 
treaty (1994). We have even had Nobel Peace Prizes awarded to Yitzhak Rabin, Shimon Peres, and 
Yasser Arafat, during the Venus retrograde cycle of 1994. However, all the cycles also include an 
intensification of violence. The recurrence of these events leads me to conclude that the current unrest 
in the Middle East is likely to continue into 2026, and at best, peace talks may take place during this 
181

--- PAGE 186 ---
retrograde. Ironically, this is not a good time for peace talks, as Venus is debilitated with low essential 
(Venus in Scorpio) and accidental (Venus retrograde) dignity. 
Another striking theme is the prominence of crude oil and the energy sector. In 1978, the Iranian 
Revolution redirected global attention to oil supplies, sending prices soaring; in 2010, BP’s settle -
ment over the Deepwater Horizon disaster reshaped conversations about corporate accountability and 
environmental costs; and in 2018, the French Yellow Vest protests, initially sparked by rising fuel 
prices, evolved into a national crisis. Each of these Venus retrograde periods highlights how oil, as 
both a resource and a symbol of wealth and power, sits at the very heart of Venusian concerns about 
value and exchange—but under Scorpio’s influence, it manifests through upheaval, scarcity, and 
confrontation. 
The final pattern to note is the occurrence of natural disasters, especially hurricanes, typhoons, 
and cyclones, in regions of the world most prone to them. These range from Hurricane Michael in 
Florida (2018), Super Typhoon Yutu (2018), Storm Callum causing flooding in the U.K. (2018), 
severe flooding in Pakistan (2010), Hurricane Kenna (2002), deadly flooding in Morocco (2002), 
severe flooding in southeastern Texas (1994), Hurricane Kendra (1978), severe flooding in Arizona 
and New Mexico (1978), Typhoon Kate (1970), to the Columbus Day Storm (1962). Given that 
Scorpio and its ruler Pluto also rule over destruction and volcanic activity, it is worth noting that the 
following related events also took place during prior Venus retrogrades in Scorpio: the deadly wild -
fire that destroyed Paradise in California (2018), major eruptions of Mount Merapi along with the 
Mentawai earthquake and tsunami (2010), and earthquakes in West Papua and Alaska (2002). 
The analysis of prior cycles reveals that when Venus is retrograde, its opponent, Mars, takes the 
lead, highlighting themes of conflict, destruction, exposed secrets and scandals, market wobbles, and 
the reopening of old wounds, whether in the Middle East or in intimate relationships. 
On a final note, pay particular attention to the period ending the Venus retrograde on November 
13, 2026 (with an orb of one week), as we have several important geocosmic events taking place 
simultaneously. The final Mercury retrograde of 2026 will also end on the same day. I highlight this 
because both planets ended their retrogrades within a week of one another in early April 2025, which 
marked a significant low for many assets. 
1. Raymond A. Merriman, The Ultimate Book on Stock Market Timing, Volume 3: Geocosmic Correlations to Trading 
Cycles (West Bloomfield, MI: Seek-It Publications, 2001). 
182

--- PAGE 187 ---
SPECIFIC TIMES OF THE YEAR BY SEASONS IN 2026 
by Pouyan Zolfagharnia, MMA Analyst 
In the ancient world, astrologers often relied on the seasonal ingress charts—moments when 
the Sun entered the cardinal signs—as powerful tools for forecasting. In ancient Persia, these days 
were not only seen as moments of celestial importance but were also regarded as sacred days 
infused with special energy. Astrologers would calculate the exact moment of the ingress, and 
people were encouraged to use this time for prayer and visualization of personal growth and a bet -
ter world. The spring ingress, for instance, was celebrated as Nowruz, the New Year—a tradition 
that continues to this day. Even now, many astrologers view the spring ingress as a symbolic “birth 
chart” for the year ahead. 
Interestingly, echoes of this ancient practice survive in modern culture, woven into our holidays 
and festivals. Christmas, aligned with the winter solstice, celebrates the coming of the “Son of God,” 
as the astrological “Sun of God” is reborn out of the year’s darkest night. Easter, near the spring equi-
nox, celebrates resurrection and new life with the symbolic egg. The summer solstice has likewise 
been marked by celebrations of light, fertility, and abundance through ancient European traditions 
such as Midsummer or St. John’s Day. Halloween, just after the autumn equinox, aligns with the 
Sun’s passage through Scorpio, the sign of death and rebirth. 
Ancient cultures marked these turning points of the year not only because of their practical rela-
tionship with the Sun, the Earth, and the onset of the seasons but also because of the profound impact 
these shifts had on human life and survival. Astrologers, however, took the moment further, using the 
ingress as a celestial “snapshot” of the heavens at the precise moment of transition and interpreting it 
as an imprint of the energies destined to shape the months ahead. The chart itself changes depending 
on one’s location on Earth, which is why, traditionally, the ingress chart cast for the ruling capital of 
the world was given special weight. After all, the decisions made at the seat of power carry the great-
est repercussions across the world. 
In this section of the book, we analyze the 2026 seasonal ingress charts for Washington, D.C. 
We then examine the major planetary aspects that occur throughout each season. This provides a col-
lective psychological overview of what is happening in the United States and the world. From there, 
we deduce certain themes that may be highlighted in the political, economic, financial, and mundane 
realms. We then apply this ancient art to speculate on possible events or decisions that may relate 
to these highlighted themes. This year, we will also include the astrocartography chart to see which 
regions of the world are most likely to be activated during each period. We will also mention the 
national charts and the charts of global leaders that may be activated under important transits to help 
us speculate on which nations and leaders are likely to fall under the cosmic spotlight. 
Let’s begin with the winter solstice of December 21, 2025, which outlines the cosmic themes for 
the following three months. 
183

--- PAGE 188 ---
WINTER: DECEMBER 21, 2025–MARCH 20, 2026 
Major geocosmic signatures: 
• December 10–21, 2025: Sun enters Capricorn; Neptune stations direct at 29° Pisces; Sun 
square Saturn and Neptune; Mars square Neptune; Venus square Saturn 
• January 6–9: Sun, Venus, and Mars all conjunct 
• January 9–10: Sun, Venus, and Mars all in opposition to Jupiter 
• January 18–27: Sun, Moon, Mercury, Venus, and Mars all conjunct Pluto; Neptune enters 
Aries 
• February 3: Uranus stations direct at 27° Taurus 
• February 5: Saturn reaches an exact opposition to the September 21, 2025, eclipse degree of 
29° Virgo 05′ 
• February 13: Saturn enters Aries 
• February 20: Saturn conjunct Neptune 
• February 26–27: Mercury stations retrograde at 22° Pisces; Mars square Uranus 
• March 18–20: Sun and Moon translate the Saturn–Neptune conjunction; Venus square Jupi-
ter; Mercury stations direct at 8° Pisces; Sun enters Aries (March 20) 
THE CAPRICORN INGRESS (WINTER SOLSTICE) 
The winter solstice for Washington, D.C., occurs on December 21, 2025, at 10:02 AM EST. 
The Sun (leader of the nation) is in the eleventh house of friends, alliances, hope, and prosperity. 
It forms a hard, separating square aspect to Saturn (lord, or ruler, of both the first and twelfth houses) 
and Neptune (lord of the second house of finances), which are in conjunction on the cusp of the sec-
ond house. The Sun in the eleventh house suggests that the White House will be focused on alliances, 
party politics, lawmaking, and working closely with Congress and legislators. In the international 
arena, it is likely to be working closely with allies, building on ties and common interests. 
Saturn as lord of the first house represents the government or nation bound to economic issues 
(cusp of second house). Saturn tends to bring about restrictions, austerity, or a debt burden. Since 
it is also lord (ruler) of the twelfth house, Saturn could introduce a theme of hidden loss, sabotage, 
systemic decay, or waste. Together, these factors could represent the U.S. national debt burden. The 
second house can also represent the Federal Reserve, and the heavy presence of Saturn could indicate 
restrictions or pressure being placed on it by the government. Neptune in conjunction with Saturn 
further emphasizes the notion of manipulation, coercion, waste, inflation, and confusion, especially 
around the topic of finances and the economy, as Neptune is also lord of the second house. Neptune’s 
involvement blurs clarity, pointing to illusory wealth, deficits, or financial scandals. This energy can 
result in systemic decay or a drain on resources, which, in economic terms, can lead to inflation, a 
weakening U.S. dollar, or both. This could create the illusion of assets rallying to new all-time highs, 
accompanied by a false sense of hope (Sun in the eleventh house) that masks deeper structural decay 
while spurring speculation in high-risk assets. 
184

--- PAGE 189 ---
Figure 17: Winter Solstice, December 21, 2025, 10:02 AM EST, Washington, D.C. 
Figure 18: Astrocartography map from Solar Fire 
185

--- PAGE 190 ---
The square from the Sun is indicative of friction and conflict between the aims of the president 
and those of the Federal Reserve Board (Neptune) and members of Congress (Saturn). Since the 
square is separating, it may indicate that the confrontation has already peaked just before the ingress, 
but its aftereffects linger into the first quarter. Symbolically, there will likely be a political struggle 
rooted in the financial markets or monetary policy, and an erosion of trust and confidence in financial 
governance. On the public level, there may be frustration with Congress and legislators (the eleventh 
house) or with the president (Sun in the eleventh), who is unable to act effectively due to financial 
constraints (Saturn–Neptune in the second). 
The Ascendant in Aquarius suggests an undertone of reform, radical shifts, perhaps even upheaval, 
with an emphasis on doing things differently and breaking from established traditions. With Aquarius 
rising, the United States may appear contrarian, isolated, or disruptive in world affairs, driven by a 
strong focus on and investment in technology. 
The co-rulers of Aquarius are Saturn and Uranus. With Saturn on the cusp of the second house 
and conjunct Neptune, we have already noted that the key issues will center on the economy and 
the management of the nation’s resources and treasury. The Saturn–Neptune conjunction could also 
indicate the materialization of dreams related to technological goals that the president is pursuing to 
give the nation a leading advantage. 
Yet the position of Uranus is equally important, as it lies within orb of the fourth-house cusp, 
also known as the Imum Coeli (IC). Uranus on the IC adds a destabilizing undertone to the domestic 
foundation—upheaval in the homeland, volatility in housing, land, or infrastructure, and a restless 
public demanding change. The Moon, another indicator of the public mood, is poorly positioned in 
Capricorn (the sign of its detriment) and in the twelfth house. This further indicates public dissatisfac-
tion, isolation, and a sense of powerlessness. The Moon, opposed by an exalted Jupiter in the sixth 
house, suggests the public’s dissatisfaction with a powerful institution that is supposed to be serving 
them. The nation may grow increasingly unsettled, driven by several factors. Uranus is at 28° Taurus 
and the IC at 1° Gemini, suggesting these events will take place later in the quarter. Therefore, the 
disruptive factors, while not an exhaustive list, may include the financial markets, natural disasters, 
farming or food supply, trade, or cyberattacks. With Uranus in the final degrees of the third house of 
trade and Mercury (the planet of trade) prominently placed in the tenth house—but in its detriment in 
Sagittarius—issues concerning trade deals are likely to remain prominent. 
In astrometeorology, Uranus is associated with high-pressure systems that bring cold air from the 
upper atmosphere or the Arctic Circle. Its location on the IC suggests strong and unusually cold winds 
hitting the East Coast from the north. The region is likely to experience below-normal precipitation 
and perhaps an Arctic outbreak bringing extreme cold, dry air, and biting winds. It is worth noting 
that the Saturn–Neptune conjunction brings together two slow-moving, low-pressure planets. The 
conjunction of these two planets may result in extreme weather patterns related to precipitation, with 
moisture concentrated in certain areas prone to flooding, while other regions experience drought. 
On the geopolitical stage, Aquarius rising gives the United States a disruptive, contrarian 
stance—more likely to break with allies, redraw alliances, or pursue unorthodox strategies. Fiscal 
strain (Saturn–Neptune in the second) could weaken America’s leverage in international finance, 
while internal instability may reduce its ability to project power abroad. Uranus on the IC also raises 
the risk of natural disasters or environmental shocks—earthquakes, severe storms, or infrastructure 
186

--- PAGE 191 ---
breakdowns—events that could not only destabilize the homeland but also reverberate through global 
markets and alliances. 
Looking at the astrocartography map, we see regions of the world where the Sun on the angles 
is brought to the foreground. The winter Sun (flanked by Venus and Mars) will be on the Midheaven 
(MC) over Greenland and Brazil, and on the IC of Japan, the Korean Peninsula, and Australia as the 
Capricorn ingress takes place. The ascendant will be over the U.S. West Coast and extend into central 
Canada, while the descendant will be over Western Europe, northeastern Africa, and the Red Sea. 
The most important outer planetary configuration will be the Saturn–Neptune conjunction, which 
is on the MC over the Middle East, the Red Sea, and Russia (Moscow). It is worth noting that the Sun 
and Mars will also be on the descendant over the Red Sea and Yemen. 
At the time of the winter ingress, transiting Saturn is at 25° Pisces and transiting Neptune at 
28° Pisces. It is worth noting that 25° Pisces is a sensitive degree for both Ukraine and Russia, as 
each nation has its natal Chiron at 25°–26° Pisces at important junctures in its history. For Russia, 
Chiron was at this degree during the storming of the Winter Palace on November 7, 1917. Ukraine 
proclaimed its independence from both Bolshevik Russia and German influence several months later, 
on January 22, 1918, with Chiron at 26° Pisces. Ukraine again proclaimed its independence from the 
USSR on August 24, 1991, and in this chart Mars is in opposition at 25° Virgo. 
Chiron relates to the collective wound—an identity trauma, humiliation, loss, or an area where 
the nation feels perpetually vulnerable. Saturn represents authority, control, restriction, and karmic 
lessons. Therefore, the transit of Saturn over a nation’s natal Chiron is likely to force the nation to 
confront old wounds of historical trauma, humiliation, or unresolved identity crises. Saturn’s restric-
tive pressure can manifest as international isolation, sanctions, or blockages that remind the nation of 
painful vulnerabilities. The people may face austerity, shortages, harsh authority, or structural limita-
tions. In opposition to Ukraine’s natal Mars, this transit reinforces aggressive military conflict, set -
backs, and logistical exhaustion. Ukraine may experience frustrated aggression, with its armed forces 
bogged down. Of course, we will not see the same explosive manifestation every 30 years as Saturn 
transits Pisces; what makes this transit distinctive is its conjunction with Neptune, which adds a cloud 
of confusion, idealism, propaganda, deception, disorganization, and disillusionment to the mix. 
The Saturn–Neptune conjunction will be exact at 0° Aries 45′ on February 20, 2026. Zero degrees 
Aries is the most sensitive point in the entire zodiac when it comes to global affairs. Events tied to this 
degree are more likely to resonate on the collective stage, affecting nations, leaders, and international 
relations. Transits to this point are frequently associated with geopolitical turning points, wars, and 
the emergence of new world orders. 
Looking at the natal charts of world leaders, the most powerful activation related to the Sat -
urn–Neptune conjunction appears to be that of Shigeru Ishiba, the prime minister of Japan. He has 
his natal Moon at 1° Aries, in opposition to his natal Jupiter at 1° Libra. This heavy conjunction on 
his natal Moon represents a personal and political burden of collective sacrifice, as he embodies 
the weight of a dissolving or restructuring moment in Japan. This signature suggests pressure from 
public discontent, uncertainty, or disillusionment regarding leadership. At the time of writing this 
report (September 2025), it comes as no surprise to find that Ishiba has just handed in his resignation 
due to public disapproval stemming from lingering scandals, distrust, and economic strain resulting 
from inflation, which is likely to worsen following the U.S.–Japan tariff agreement. He resigned days 
187

--- PAGE 192 ---
before a powerful solar eclipse on his natal Jupiter, in opposition to the Saturn–Neptune conjunction 
to his natal Moon. 
King Salman of Saudi Arabia was born under a Saturn–Neptune opposition, and his son, Moham-
med bin Salman, has Neptune at 0° Capricorn (exactly square the transiting Saturn–Neptune con -
junction). As this signature activates both their charts, one might wonder whether the prince will 
be crowned king during this conjunction. Another leader whose natal chart will be activated by this 
signature is Emmanuel Macron of France; his natal Sun–Mercury conjunction is at 29° Sagittarius, 
in opposition to his natal Jupiter at 1° Cancer. The Saturn–Neptune conjunction will form a T-square 
to all these planets. As a leader, Macron will stand out during this period. His authority (Sun), diplo-
macy (Mercury), and alliances (Jupiter) will be challenged and may come under pressure. 
The following leaders were also born around the time of a Saturn–Neptune conjunction, and this 
signature is likely to reactivate the natal promise within their charts: Xi Jinping (China), Vladimir 
Putin (Russia), Jerome Powell (chair of the Federal Reserve Board), and Cyril Ramaphosa (South 
Africa). Pedro Sánchez (Spain) and Andrzej Duda (Poland) were born under the Saturn–Neptune 
opposition, while Keir Starmer (UK) was born under the Saturn–Neptune square. 
In traditional astrology, the Aries nations are Iran, Palestine, England, Denmark, Germany, 
and Syria. With the initial ingress of Saturn and Neptune into Aries taking place in 2025, we have 
seen the Assad regime fall in Syria, the 12-day war between Israel and Iran, and the world’s attention 
turn to the atrocities occurring in Palestine. On the day of the solar eclipse in opposition to the Sat -
urn–Neptune conjunction (September 21, 2025), we witnessed a significant pivot and new beginning 
by Western nations, starting with the announcement by Keir Starmer, the British prime minister, of 
the UK’s formal recognition of the Palestinian state. This was followed by similar announcements 
from many Western nations ahead of the UN General Assembly meeting that took place the next day. 
While the Saturn–Neptune conjunction will affect the entire world, the Aries nations are likely to find 
themselves on the front pages during this period. 
SPECIFIC PERIODS HIGHLIGHTED IN THE WINTER 
The most important geocosmic event of the winter will be the triple conjunction of the Sun, 
Venus, and Mars, taking place in close proximity from January 6 to 9. On January 18, Mercury and 
the Moon will also join the stellium in the final degrees of Capricorn and early Aquarius. 
Venus is the planet of diplomacy, peace, values, treaties, and the arts. Opposing these energies, 
Mars is the planet of war, aggression, conflict, assertion, and action. Their conjunction often signifies 
an alliance formed under pressure or the eruption of social passions that have reached a boiling point. It 
initiates a synodic cycle in which collective desires (Venus) and drive (Mars) interact. The previous two 
occurrences of this synodic cycle were strongly marked by the Russia–Ukraine war. The Russian inva-
sion took place on February 24, 2022, just days after the Venus–Mars conjunction of February 16, 2022, 
in the sign of Capricorn (Russia is considered a Capricorn nation). Capricorn emphasizes systems, 
governments, structure, and authority. Mars thrives under the discipline of Capricorn and is exalted in 
this sign; as such, a powerful Mars tends to overwhelm Venus here. The Venus–Mars conjunction in 
Capricorn is therefore suggestive of conflict over state power, military structures, and global order. 
The next Venus–Mars conjunction took place on February 22, 2024, in early Aquarius, within 
orb of Pluto. This period was marked by an intensification of the Russian offensive following the 
188

--- PAGE 193 ---
loss of Avdiivka, which was seen as a major gain for Russia. Aquarius rules collective ideals, revolu-
tions, technology, and social movements. The Venus–Mars conjunction in Aquarius coincided with 
new forms of alliance, ideological clashes, and technology-driven conflicts such as cyberwarfare, AI 
geopolitics, and digital currencies. In February 2024, the war in Ukraine remained central but was 
increasingly framed in terms of international coalitions, sanctions, and drone or tech warfare. 
As we head into 2026, the prospect of peace seems increasingly remote. Another Venus–Mars 
conjunction will occur in a similar sector of the zodiac, leading us to believe that we will either see an 
intensification of the war or a reversal signature leading to peace. Under the shadow of the Saturn– 
Neptune conjunction over the world axis, my bias is toward the former. Therefore, we are likely to 
see a further escalation of warfare in Ukraine during this period. This is supported by the symbolism 
of the Sun, Venus, and Mars forming a conjunction with the explosive and purging energy of Pluto 
from January 19 to 27. 
On February 3, Uranus will station direct at 27° Taurus, near the malefic fixed star Algol, mark-
ing a potent turning point in global affairs. Uranus stations signal sudden shifts and awakenings, 
and Taurus governs material security, resources, and societal stability. With Algol’s influence, the 
potential for shocking, disruptive, or violent events is amplified—literal or symbolic “decapitations” 
of leadership, institutions, or systems are possible. 
Historical patterns at this degree underscore themes of sudden escalations in war and conflict, 
revolutionary uprisings, and abrupt shifts in power (e.g., the intensification of World War II in 1940– 
42 and the Indian Rebellion of 1857). Even technological and social domains may be affected, as 
Uranus tends to bring unforeseen breakthroughs or disruptions. 
By February 5, Saturn will reach an exact opposition to the September 21, 2025, eclipse degree 
of 29° Virgo 05′. This eclipse stands out, as it formed within a one-degree orb of 0° Libra, which 
is one of the “World Points,” (0° of Aries, Cancer, Libra, and Capricorn). These points are pivotal 
in mundane astrology because they lie on the cardinal cross, marking the turning points of the sea -
sons and symbolizing new cycles of collective action. When eclipses or major transits activate these 
points, events tend to spill into the public sphere, influencing nations, governments, and global sen -
timent. They act as portals between private and collective experience, where individual or national 
developments gain worldwide visibility and impact. 
The eclipse potential tends to be triggered or released as the malefic planets (Mars or Saturn) 
transit this degree or form a hard aspect to it. Mars will form the first hard aspect on December 14, 
2025, shortly before its ingress into Capricorn. However, as this is a square aspect, we would expect 
the Saturn opposition to have greater impact. Note that Saturn’s orbit is much slower, and that an orb 
of 2° can be applied. 
In practice, activations of the Aries “World Point” often coincide with political realignments, 
leadership changes, social movements, and historical turning points—moments when the energy of 
renewal and initiation (Aries) manifests tangibly in world affairs. 
One of the most important aspects of the year occurs on February 20, as the single passage of 
the Saturn–Neptune conjunction takes place. Refer to the earlier chapter on this aspect for a detailed 
analysis. 
189

--- PAGE 194 ---
Mercury retrograde will commence on February 26, followed quickly by the disruptive Mars– 
Uranus square on February 27. These are potent signatures for market reversals. Mercury’s retro -
grade will bring closure to the quarter, ending with the spring ingress on March 20. 
Critical reversal dates for winter: The following are geocosmic critical reversal dates for financial 
markets during this season. Any market making a two-week or greater high or low can be considered a 
candidate for a reversal within +/− three trading days. The steepness of the reversal depends on where 
each market is in its primary cycle. If it is within the time band for its primary-cycle crest or trough, the 
reversal will be steepest. If it is due for its one-third or half-cycle phase, the reversal will be less steep. 
December 16, 2025 
January 9–12 
January 16–19 
February 5 
February 27–March 2 
March 20–23 
SPRING: MARCH 20–JUNE 21, 2026 
Major geocosmic signatures: 
• Ma rch 20–25: Sun enters Aries; Mercury stations direct at 8° Pisces; Mars trine Jupi-
ter; Sun conjunct Neptune (March 22) and Saturn (March 25) 
• April 3–5: Venus square Pluto 
• April 13–19: Mars conjunct Neptune and Saturn 
• April 23–25: Venus conjunct Uranus; Sun square Pluto; Uranus enters Gemini 
• May 4–6: Mars square Jupiter; Pluto stations retrograde at 5° Aquarius 
• May 22: Sun conjunct Uranus 
• May 28: Venus square Saturn 
• June 9: Venus conjunct Jupiter 
THE ARIES INGRESS (SPRING EQUINOX) 
The spring (vernal) equinox for Washington, D.C., occurs on March 20, 2026, at 10:45 AM EDT. 
Once again, the Sun (symbolizing the leader of the nation) is in the eleventh house of allies and 
friends, only this time it is head-to-head with the theme of the Saturn–Neptune conjunction. In fact, 
there is a stellium of planets in Aries, as the ingress occurs within orb of a New Moon, further empha-
sizing the theme of new beginnings. The luminaries are accompanied by Neptune, Saturn, Venus, and 
Chiron in Aries. 
The ascendant is in Gemini, suggesting that the next three months will be defined by quick 
changes, information wars, communication, and the “spin” of narratives. Public life and the nation 
190

--- PAGE 195 ---
will be shaped by media, diplomacy, and the management—or mismanagement—of information, as 
Mercury in Pisces is in its fall and detriment. 
Mercury, the ruler of the chart, is prominently placed in the tenth house. This suggests that the 
nation’s identity is firmly bound to the executive and the public reputation of President Trump, who 
seeks visibility and decisive action. Mercury’s placement, however, suggests that miscalculations and 
miscommunications are likely, increasing the risk of escalation abroad and scandals at home. Such 
escalations may even be used as a tactic to divert attention from those scandals—a classic Mercurial 
display of showmanship. 
Mercury is conjunct the North Node and applying to a conjunction with Mars (lord of the sixth 
house—the military). This configuration indicates an agitated leadership, prone to aggressive or rash 
decisions, confrontational diplomacy, and the initiation or threat of military action. The presence of 
the North Node suggests that this will be a highly fated and pivotal quarter for the United States. 
Taken together, these factors point to an ambitious but risky push by President Trump, involving 
executive actions that define the nation’s image. On the positive side, this could relate to technologi-
cal investments in AI initiated by the White House; on the negative side, it could manifest as involve-
ment in geopolitical conflict. 
Figure 19: Spring (Vernal) Equinox, March 20, 2026, 10:45 AM EDT, Washington, D.C. 
191

--- PAGE 196 ---
Figure 20: Astrocartography map from Solar Fire 
The Winter 2025 Ingress Chart signaled financial issues related to trade, deficits, inflation, and 
structural weakness, as well as a president embroiled in internal conflict. These same themes are 
clearly spilling into the spring 2026 ingress chart as the Saturn–Neptune conjunction joins the Sun in 
Aries in the eleventh house. President Trump is thrust into congressional battles and tensions with the 
Federal Reserve on the domestic front, and into confrontation with traditional allies on the interna -
tional front, as he asserts dominance despite institutional weakness and financial decay eating away 
at the foundation. By the time of this ingress, Trump is entering his second year in office. Historically, 
this is the period when presidents face their steepest challenges—marked by waning political capital, 
increased pushback from Congress, and midterm primaries heating up. It is also the period most often 
accompanied by external crises testing foreign policy (about 80% of major U.S. foreign conflicts 
have historically begun within the first two years of a presidential term). 
The Sun is exalted in Aries, suggesting that Trump will be highly active, energized, and intent on 
asserting dominance in both domestic and foreign arenas. Yet the conjunction with Saturn (lord of the 
eighth, ninth, and tenth houses), in its fall, and Neptune (lord of the eleventh), suggests legislative strug-
gles, loss of credibility, backroom dealings, erosion of alliances, and deception. The exalted Sun indicates 
that Trump will push his policies through regardless, but at the cost of destabilizing (Neptune) institutions 
(Saturn). The eleventh house could also point to alliances that Trump has developed with leaders in the 
tech world—ranging from Elon Musk, Peter Thiel, Sam Altman, and Jensen Huang to Mark Zucker -
berg—or to new alliances on the global stage with the heads of the Gulf States, such as Emir Sheikh 
Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani (Qatar), Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman (Saudi Arabia), and Presi-
dent Mohammed bin Zayed Al Nahyan (U.A.E.). It may even point to issues within the Republican Party. 
With the Moon in Aries, the public mood will be impatient, impulsive, frustrated, confrontational, 
and outspoken. The Moon is trapped between Venus and Chiron. Being within orb of a conjunction 
with Venus is usually favorable; however, in Aries, Venus is weak and in its detriment. As a result, 
there will be weak social cohesion, polarization, more aggressive values, and an inward-looking, 
192

--- PAGE 197 ---
self-oriented society. This spells trouble for the rest of the world, as it suggests struggles with diplo-
macy and friction with alliances on the international front. The Moon is also applying to a conjunction 
with Chiron in Aries, representing the collective wound around identity, independence, militarism, 
or leadership. Taken together, this indicates a wave of public discontent or protest, injury to national 
morale, and strained foreign relations. 
Therefore, the spring 2026 ingress chart indicates a volatile quarter in Trump’s second year. 
The exalted Sun empowers him to act boldly and visibly, but weakened Saturn, Mercury, and Venus 
suggest that his initiatives will be marred by institutional decay, miscommunication, and diplomatic 
friction. The public is restless, Congress is fractured, and alliances are strained by financial demands 
and hidden entanglements. 
In the markets, illusions may give way to strain: debt, deficits, and currency instability feature 
prominently in the U.S. economy, with trade disputes flaring. Geopolitically, covert or sudden shocks 
to U.S. leadership are possible (Uranus in the twelfth house), while foreign entanglements (military 
or ideological) risk escalation. 
This is a quarter of bold moves but dangerous overreach—when appearances of strength mask 
underlying fragility, and sudden disruptions (whether political, financial, or natural) could redefine 
the trajectory of Trump’s presidency and America’s global role. 
Looking at the astrocartography map, the Sun, Saturn, and Neptune are all in conjunction on the 
Midheaven (MC) over Greenland and Brazil, and on the IC over Japan, the Korean Peninsula, and 
Australia. This is the same location held by the Sun during the previous Capricorn ingress, as well as 
by Saturn and Neptune when their conjunction becomes exact on February 20, 2026. The ascendant 
lies over the Pacific Ocean, while the descendant runs through Russia, Iran, the Persian Gulf (Strait 
of Hormuz), and the Gulf States. 
SPECIFIC PERIODS HIGHLIGHTED IN THE SPRING 
There is quite a cosmic shift in collective attitude and behavior at the very start of the season, 
as the luminaries and Mars translate the energy of the Saturn–Neptune conjunction, while Uranus 
makes its final ingress into Gemini. March 20–25 should mark the onset of this shift, with Mercury 
stationing direct on the same day as the solar ingress. As the Sun forms a conjunction with Neptune 
(March 22) and Saturn (March 25), it acts as a trigger, manifesting the energy of the Saturn–Neptune 
conjunction. We are anticipating important geopolitical and market events during this period. 
As the Sun leaves Aries for Taurus, another eventful period unfolds April 13–25. Mars and 
Mercury will jointly trigger the Saturn–Neptune conjunction, while Venus conjoins Uranus as both 
ingress into Gemini. We would anticipate aggressive communication and announcements, assertive 
actions around conflict, and sudden changes or disruptions to alliances, trade, and the markets. 
May will be relatively calm as the world readjusts to the shocks of late March and April. However, 
this will be short-lived, as the Sun forms its annual conjunction with Uranus while Venus squares 
Saturn May 22–28. When Uranus is activated, we tend to see sudden shifts or unexpected challenges. 
Such periods frequently coincide with public protests, rebellion, or even natural disasters. 
The most auspicious signature of the quarter—and possibly even of the year—will occur on June 
9, when Venus forms a conjunction with Jupiter. As these two benefic planets meet in the sky, this 
193

--- PAGE 198 ---
period tends to bring a surge in public morale and optimism, fueled by economic growth, recovery, 
and expansion, as well as positive developments in diplomacy and the strengthening of alliances. It is 
a time when prosperity, cooperation, and goodwill are emphasized, creating favorable conditions for 
both national and social advancement. 
Critical reversal dates for spring: The following are geocosmic critical reversal dates for finan-
cial markets during this season. Any market making a two-week or greater high or low can be con -
sidered a candidate for a reversal within +/− three trading days. The steepness of the reversal depends 
on where each market is in its primary cycle. If it is within the time band for its primary cycle crest or 
trough, the reversal will be steepest. If it is due for its one-third or half-cycle phase, the reversal will 
be less steep. If none of these apply, the reversal is probably not worth trading. 
March 20–23 
April 3–6 
April 24–27 
May 22–25 
June 11–12 
SUMMER: JUNE 21–SEPTEMBER 22, 2026 
Major geocosmic signatures: 
• Jun e 21–25: Sun enters Cancer; Sun square Neptune 
• June 29–30: Mercury stations retrograde at 26° Cancer; Jupiter enters Leo 
• July 4–7: Mars conjunct Uranus; Mars trine Pluto; Neptune stations retrograde at 4° Aries 
• July 15–25: Uranus sextile Neptune; Uranus trine Pluto; Jupiter opposite Pluto; Jupiter trine 
Neptune; Jupiter sextile Uranus; Mercury stations direct at 16° Cancer; Neptune sextile Pluto 
• July 26–29: Saturn stations retrograde at 14° Aries; Sun opposite Pluto; Sun conjunct Jupiter 
• August 12: Solar Eclipse at 20° Leo 
• August 18–21: North Node enters Aquarius; Venus opposite Saturn 
• August 28–September 1: Lunar Eclipse; Sun square Uranus; Jupiter trine Saturn; Mars 
square Saturn 
• September 10–15: Uranus stations retrograde at 5° Gemini; Venus square Pluto 
THE CANCER INGRESS (SUMMER SOLSTICE) 
The summer solstice takes place in Washington, D.C., on June 21, 2026, at 4:24 AM EDT. 
The themes from the spring ingress find an echo in the summer ingress, as this chart also has a 
Gemini Ascendant. Perhaps this is apt, as President Trump is a Gemini native and will clearly dominate 
both domestic and global affairs. As such, the president will embody how the rest of the world views the 
United States. The national identity will be shaped by messaging, media (including social media) spin, 
executive orders, the AI race, technological dominance, trade wars, diplomacy, and duality. The struggle 
with eleventh-house issues (alliances, friendships, Congress, and the Republican Party) is also evident 
in this chart, with the Sun (Trump) in another hard aspect to Neptune (lord of the eleventh house and 
positioned there as well). While the Sun forms hard aspects to Neptune in all the ingress charts of 2026 
and into 2027, it is interesting that the eleventh house keeps getting highlighted. 
194

--- PAGE 199 ---
Figure 21: Summer Solstice, June 21, 2026, 04:24 AM EDT, Washington, D.C. 
Figure 22: Astrocartography map from Solar Fire 
195

--- PAGE 200 ---
The lord of the chart is Mercury, about to form a conjunction with Jupiter in Cancer in the third house. 
The focus of the third house aligns with that of Mercury—namely, communication, media, trade, treaties, 
transportation, neighboring nations, domestic mobility, and education. Exalted Jupiter will strengthen 
Mercury and suggests that this will be a period filled with grandeur, optimism, expansion, and national 
pride. This aligns well with the 250th anniversary of the United States of America on July 4, 2026, which 
is being referred to as the America250 celebrations. Yet Jupiter’s largesse runs the risk of inflated prom-
ises or exaggerated rhetoric as well. With Venus in Leo, and also in the third house, the July celebrations 
promise entertainment, spectacle, celebrity, and cultural expressions that will be broadcast worldwide. 
This is likely to be a summer of celebrations, festivals, public events, and media saturation. 
The Sun is in the final degrees of the first house, suggesting that President Trump will be highly 
visible, taking center stage and shaping the nation’s identity. His focus is shifting toward the econ -
omy, markets, and national wealth. The Sun squares Neptune (lord of the eleventh house), indicating 
struggles with alliances, both domestic and foreign, and a degree of confusion or deception. The 
American public (Moon) forms a T-square to this aspect, reflecting tension between the public mood 
and the president. People may feel misrepresented or manipulated, sensing a disconnect between 
spectacle and reality. This placement could also signal public pushback on issues related to youth 
(Moon in the fifth house), education, or health care (Moon in Virgo). 
Just above the horizon, Mars is applying to a conjunction with Uranus in the final degrees of the 
twelfth house and within orb of the ascendant. This is a troubling signature, suggestive of hidden 
enemies, sudden crises, disruptive attacks, sabotage, or cyberwarfare. Mars, as lord of the twelfth 
house, is indicative of hidden enemies and clandestine activities intended to cause mischief. Uranus, 
as lord of the tenth house, points to sudden shocks to the leadership or the president. This configura-
tion could manifest as an assassination attempt, terrorist incident, health scare, military miscalcula -
tion, or intelligence crisis. It symbolizes a destabilizing shock undermining the national leader late in 
the summer of 2026. 
The Mars–Uranus conjunction is at 3° Gemini, which is within orb of a conjunction to the natal 
Moon (6° Gemini) of Ukraine (1918 chart), so this event may have repercussions for the Ukrainian 
people. With regard to global leaders, this conjunction is also within orb of a conjunction to the natal 
Moon of Vladimir Putin (2° Gemini) and the natal Mars of Ursula von der Leyen (president of the 
European Commission). It is also within orb of a hard aspect to planets in the natal charts of several 
European leaders, including Macron, Meloni, Starmer, Sánchez, and Duda. 
The Moon in Putin’s chart symbolizes the people, the homeland, emotional instincts, and public 
mood. With the Mars–Uranus conjunction on his natal Moon, we could see sudden unrest or volatility 
among the Russian people—possibly protests, strikes, or a rapid change in public sentiment. There 
is also the potential for an emotional or instinctive overreaction by Putin, leading to impulsive deci -
sions. The Moon also rules personal security and health, so it could signal instability in his personal 
life or well-being. For Ursula von der Leyen, this signature may activate her fighting spirit, prompt-
ing a sudden assertion of leadership or radical, unexpected decisions in defense or military policy. 
This could manifest as EU military coordination, sanctions, or swift, bold action, possibly in response 
to Russia or external shocks. 
In astrometeorology, Uranus and other high-pressure planets are suggestive of dry climates. The 
Mars conjunction will bring the extreme heat conducive to drought during an abnormally hot summer. 
196

--- PAGE 201 ---
The summer solstice ingress paints a quarter of patriotic spectacle, media saturation, and eco -
nomic promises—centered on America250 and dominated by President Trump, who ties leadership 
to prosperity and national pride. But beneath the fanfare, Congress and alliances remain unstable, 
finances are fragile, and the public senses disillusionment. The most dangerous signature is the Mars– 
Uranus conjunction in the twelfth house near the ascendant, which could manifest as sudden disrup-
tion from hidden enemies, intelligence leaks, or foreign sabotage, threatening the leadership’s image. 
It could also signal a natural disaster disrupting the summer’s patriotic mood. 
The ingress chart spells trouble for the markets, as it shows Venus (markets) separating from an 
opposition to Pluto (disruptions). In the summer of 2026, there are two important geocosmic signatures 
pertaining to the markets: Jupiter will oppose Pluto (July 20), shortly after its ingress into Leo, and the 
North Node will enter Aquarius (August 18). Historically, the U.S. equity markets tend to experience a 
long-term correction when Jupiter is in Leo and the North Node transits Aquarius or Capricorn. While 
both signatures will remain in place through 2027, their activations occur in the summer, ushered in 
by the Pluto opposition. It is worth noting that the dot-com bubble burst in the year 2000 as Jupiter in 
Gemini (technology, communication, and the internet) formed an opposition to Pluto in Sagittarius (the 
World Wide Web). This time, Pluto is in Aquarius, a sign closely associated with advanced technology. 
Is there a bubble forming in artificial (Uranus) intelligence (Gemini)? The transit of Uranus through 
Gemini supports this outlook, as a boom–bust cycle is expected in this field. 
With the Jupiter opposition to Pluto, tension arises between expansion, optimism, and growth 
(Jupiter) and power, control, sudden change, and hidden forces (Pluto). Historically, this aspect cor-
relates with financial excesses, speculative bubbles, ideological clashes, and the exposure of corrup-
tion, as well as struggles between elites and broader society. In the markets, it often brings turbulence, 
extreme swings, and episodes of overreach followed by correction. Overall, this signature implies 
increased volatility and dramatic societal or economic shifts. 
The Jupiter–Pluto opposition (on July 20 at 4° Leo–Aquarius) will come to the forefront as it 
is translated by the Sun–Moon opposition (Full Moon) of July 29 +/− 3 days. Between July and 
November, we are going to see a number of important signatures take place in the fire sign of Leo. 
On August 12, a Solar Eclipse will form at 20° Leo. On October 3, Mars will oppose Pluto from 3° 
Leo, and on November 3, Mars will trigger and reactivate the eclipse degree of 20° Leo. 
These Leo signatures are likely to activate the natal charts of the following world leaders and 
bring them—and, by extension, their countries—into the spotlight: Xi Jinping (China), Vladimir 
Putin (Russia), V olodymyr Zelensky (Ukraine), Donald Trump (United States), and Mohammed bin 
Salman (Saudi Arabia). 
Looking at the astrocartography map, the Sun will be on the Midheaven (MC) over Russia, Iran, 
and the Persian Gulf, and on the IC over Canada (narrowly missing the U.S. West Coast). The ascen-
dant will also fall over Canada, while the descendant runs through Australia and Papua New Guinea. 
The most important outer planetary configuration will be the Jupiter–Pluto opposition, with Pluto 
on the MC over the United States and on the IC through China. Could this be a crest in the NASDAQ? 
SPECIFIC PERIODS HIGHLIGHTED IN THE SUMMER 
Summer starts out with the Sun square Neptune, June 21–25. The Cancer ingress will bring a 
sudden shift in the global mood, accompanied by confusion and disorientation. It will be quickly 
197

--- PAGE 202 ---
followed by Mercury turning retrograde as Jupiter enters Leo, June 29–30. With Jupiter in Leo, the 
public mood may lift as we approach the America250 celebrations, which will dominate the media. 
July 4–7 will be an intense period, marked by powerful geocosmic signatures: Mars conjunct 
Uranus, followed closely by Mars trine Pluto and Neptune turning retrograde. Mars forming aspects 
to Uranus and Pluto are aggressive, explosive signatures that can be unsettling. This period may be 
dominated by shock and sudden events, and the markets will be susceptible to sudden reversals. 
We then enter a period dominated by outer planetary aspects going exact back-to-back from July 15 
to 29. It will start with the Uranus–Neptune sextile, followed by the Uranus–Pluto trine, Jupiter–Pluto 
opposition, Jupiter–Neptune trine, Jupiter–Uranus sextile, and finally the Neptune–Pluto sextile. Toward 
the end of this two-week period, Mercury stations direct on July 23, and there is a powerful Full Moon 
that could act as a trigger for all these aspects on July 29. After February’s Saturn–Neptune conjunction, 
this is likely to be the next most significant period of the year. We would expect to see major reversals in 
the financial markets and significant decisions made regarding global affairs during this time. 
We will then move toward a Solar Eclipse on August 12. Since eclipses mark important beginnings 
and endings, it is possible that this marks a key date for the expression of the outer planetary activity 
from the final two weeks of July and may, in fact, have a wide two-week orb—from the Full Moon 
of July 29 until the Lunar Eclipse of August 28. The Solar Eclipse takes place at 20° Leo, with a path 
extending from Western Europe to North America. It is no surprise that the sign of Leo is prominent in 
the natal charts of many global leaders. Leo is on the ascendant in President Trump’s chart and on the 
Midheaven of Putin’s chart; President Xi Jinping’s natal Moon is in Leo; Zelensky’s IC and natal Moon 
are in Leo; and Taiwan’s Lai Ching-te has his natal Uranus at 19° Leo. The eclipse degree will be trig-
gered by transiting Mars on November 3, 2026, which could mark the release of this eclipse’s energy. 
Nations likely to be impacted by this eclipse include France, India, Pakistan, and Bahrain. 
By August 18, the North Node enters Aquarius and will spend 18 months transiting this sign. It 
is worth noting that this is the signature that Louise McWhirter identified as the basis of her theory: 
“The major or primary trend of business volume and finance is clearly pointed out by the nineteen-
year cycle of the North Node as it passes through the twelve signs of the zodiac… When the North 
Node enters Aquarius, the low point of business activity has been reached.” (McWhirter, 2008, p. 5)
1 
Given that transiting Jupiter is also in Leo for approximately 12 months from June 2026, we have two 
signals suggesting that the stock markets are likely to bottom during this period. 
We enter a tense period, susceptible to major shocks and disruptions, August 28–September 1. 
This window incorporates the Lunar Eclipse, Sun square Uranus, Mars square Saturn, and the first of 
three exact Jupiter–Saturn trines. The Jupiter–Saturn trine is important to the markets, as this signa -
ture has a high correlation with troughs in the world reserve currency that underpins all markets—the 
U.S. Dollar. The trines will be exact on August 31, 2026; April 3, 2027; and July 11, 2027. We expect 
the trough in the U.S. Dollar to form roughly in the middle, around December 2026 +/− 1.5 months. 
The last time we had this signature was in May 2008, when the U.S. Dollar formed a trough in March 
2008. A loss of confidence in the U.S. Dollar is usually accompanied by panic in the financial mar -
kets. Therefore, this is the third important signature pointing toward trouble as we enter late 2026. 
The Sun–Uranus and Mars–Saturn squares are disruptive signatures that suggest a period of high 
tension. We may see public protests or aggressive acts. Be on the lookout for abrupt headlines, mili-
tary flashpoints, market volatility, or natural disasters and extreme weather patterns. This period is 
198

--- PAGE 203 ---
likely to extend through the Uranus station retrograde on September 10. September 2026 is packed 
with important geocosmic signatures, holding the potential to be one of the most significant months 
of the year—before an action-packed fourth quarter. 
Critical reversal dates for summer: The following are geocosmic critical reversal dates for 
financial markets during this season. Any market making a two-week or greater high or low can be 
considered a candidate for a reversal within +/− three trading days. The steepness of the reversal 
depends on where each market is in its primary cycle. If it is within the time band for its primary 
cycle crest or trough, the reversal will be steepest. If it is due for its one-third or half-cycle phase, 
the reversal will be less steep. If none of the above apply, the reversal is probably not worth trading. 
July 3–6 
August 5 
August 13 
August 28–31 
September 11–14 
September 22 
AUTUMN: SEPTEMBER 22–DECEMBER 21, 2026 
Major geocosmic signatures: 
• September 22–28: Sun enters Libra in opposition to Neptune; the Sun is also within orb of a 
trine with Pluto and Uranus, forming a kite pattern 
• October 2–4: Mars trine Neptune; Venus stations retrograde at 8° Scorpio; Mars opposite 
Pluto; Sun opposite Saturn 
• October 15: Pluto stations direct at 3° Aquarius 
• October 20–24: Venus square Pluto; Mercury stations retrograde at 20° Scorpio 
• November 3: Mars reaches the August 12, 2026, eclipse degree (20° Leo) 
• November 13: Venus stations direct at 22° Libra; Mercury stations direct at 5° Scorpio 
• November 16–19: Mars conjunct Jupiter; Sun square Jupiter; Sun square Mars 
• November 25: Sun opposite Uranus 
• December 4: Mars square Uranus 
• December 9–12: Venus square Pluto; Saturn stations direct at 7° Aries; Neptune stations 
direct at 1° Aries; Jupiter stations retrograde at 27° Leo 
THE LIBRA INGRESS (AUTUMNAL EQUINOX) 
The autumnal equinox in Washington, D.C., occurs on September 22, 2026, at 8:05 PM EDT. 
This is a chart symbolic of crisis and filled with heavy, volatile, and karmic geocosmic signatures. It 
signals a quarter of reckoning, confrontation, and exposure following a year of illusions and spectacle. 
The chart has Aries on the ascendant, suggesting a volatile, martial, and assertive national 
temperament. The collective mood is combative, impatient, and ready for confrontation. With the 
199

--- PAGE 204 ---
ascendant near the end of the sign (26° Aries), we are approaching the culmination of an Aries cycle, 
suggestive of crisis or consequences from actions taken earlier in the year. The late degree further 
hints at exhaustion or battle weariness, as the nation enters the quarter already embroiled in issues 
that can no longer be deferred. Aries rising also places the people and leadership at the forefront. This 
is an active ingress, so events are likely to erupt rather than unfold gradually. 
Mars, as ruler of the chart, is positioned in its fall at 26° Cancer, in exact square aspect to the 
ascendant from the fourth house. This depleted Mars is emotional, defensive, reactionary, and unsta-
ble. In its fall, its strength is compromised; it becomes reactive and erratic. The nation is suffering 
from some type of injury or attack and is responding—and likely overreacting—with emotion (anger) 
rather than decisive strategy. This placement could signify the misuse of power or retaliatory actions 
by leadership. Perhaps it speaks of internal divisions (Mars in Cancer) weakening the outward projec-
tion of strength (ascendant in Aries). 
Figure 23: Autumnal Equinox, September 22, 2026, 8:05 PM EDT, Washington, D.C. 
200

--- PAGE 205 ---
Figure 24: Astrocartography map from Solar Fire 
Later in the fall, Mars will enter the fire sign of Leo and form an opposition to Pluto. This con -
figuration is indicative of aggressive action and an intensification of power struggles. The explosive 
signature suggests that the leadership (Mars in Leo) is facing pressure from external or institutional 
forces (Pluto in the tenth house). Pluto also rules debt, so perhaps there is a power struggle involving 
the Federal Reserve Board. 
The most prominent planetary placement is that of Chiron on the ascendant. This is suggestive 
of the national wound or injury on display. It is a sign that the nation will be suffering and learning 
an important lesson. In the final degree of Aries, Chiron’s position is suggestive of symbolic endings, 
crises, and an irreversible transition in the status quo. The wound is self-inflicted, as Chiron and the 
ascendant are in square aspect to Mars, the ruler of the chart. Errors of judgment, past aggressive 
policies, or mismanagement now come home to roost. The dynamics involved are suggestive of a 
leadership or national identity crisis linked to national pride, reputation, or security. Could it be the 
economic consequence of “Liberation Day”? Is the nation responding to the dangerous aspects dis -
cussed in the Summer Ingress section? It could also be an intensification of geopolitical confrontation 
and war, or a crisis brought about by revelations concerning morality and secrets (the Epstein files?). 
It may also be a sign of another pandemic. 
The Sun, representing President Trump, is always in its fall on the autumn ingress. However, 
in this chart it is weakly positioned in the sixth house of injury, wounds, enemies, service, labor, 
health, war, and the military. The Sun (leader) is opposed by Neptune (lord of the twelfth house and 
positioned there), suggestive of hidden enemies, confusion, disillusionment, deception, or military 
operations. This echoes earlier Saturn–Neptune themes that have been in force since 2025 but have 
now turned toxic (twelfth house)—the illusory result being some type of collapse or loss. Saturn (lord 
of the tenth house) nearby reinforces fatigue, decay, and limitation; the administration is under siege, 
institutions are strained, and morale is low. With the Sun in the sixth house and the Saturn–Neptune 
conjunction in play, this configuration may point to another public health or environmental crisis. 
201

--- PAGE 206 ---
The autumn of 2026 unfolds beneath the long and solemn shadow of Chiron, the wounded healer. 
Its presence marks this season as one of revelation and reckoning, where the nation is asked to con -
front pain not as punishment but as a teacher. Old wounds (political, social, and economic) rise to the 
surface, seeking acknowledgment and understanding, as they can no longer be denied. The impulse 
to defend and assert remains strong (Aries rising, Mars in Cancer), yet power itself feels burdened, 
its confidence tempered by memory and consequence (Mars opposing Pluto). Leadership wavers 
between conviction and confusion (Sun opposing Neptune and Saturn), while the public wrestles 
with faith and fatigue, longing for truth amid the noise of pride and promise (Moon opposing Jupi -
ter). Under Chiron’s shadow, this is not merely a time of struggle but an important lesson required 
for healing. The beacon of hope (Moon in the eleventh house) rises from the people, not the halls of 
power. In their unity and resilience rests the nation’s true fortune—the living proof that in its trials, it 
is the great heart of the American public that will lead the nation to heal (Jupiter in Leo). 
The ingress chart has Mercury approaching the descendant. Mercury is a planet of high winds, 
and with the Sun forming a kite pattern, there is a risk of hurricanes and destructive storms. 
Looking at the astrocartography map, Europe really stands out during this ingress. London has a 
grand cross on its ingress chart, with the Sun on the Nadir (IC), Neptune on the MC, Pluto on the descen-
dant, and Mars on the ascendant. This is bound to be an important period in the history of the United 
Kingdom. The Mars–Pluto lines run across central Europe, with Saturn on the MC. As we move toward 
Eastern Europe, Ukraine finds Chiron on the MC—the symbolic wound of Europe and the free world. 
The most important outer planetary configuration will be the Mars–Pluto opposition, with Pluto 
on the MC over the United States and on the IC over China. Could this be pointing to a crest in the 
NASDAQ? 
SPECIFIC PERIODS HIGHLIGHTED IN THE FALL 
In general, we tend to see a seasonal correction in financial markets following the autumn ingress. 
An important double retrograde is taking place, involving Venus and Mercury in the sign of Scorpio, 
which we analyzed in depth in the retrograde section of this book. The first period that could result in 
a sudden reversal in the markets is therefore October 2–4, as Venus begins its retrograde, Mars forms 
an opposition to Pluto, and the Sun opposes Saturn. These signatures are aggressive and suggest a 
shock or sudden event disrupting the markets. 
Pluto, the ruler of Scorpio, is active throughout October and November. Pluto stations direct on 
October 15, and Venus goes on to form a square to Pluto as Mercury turns retrograde in Scorpio on 
October 24. This is a month traditionally associated with Halloween, and market psychology will 
be on edge and prone to fear. This unease may spill over into geopolitics, as many important acts of 
aggression have taken place during transits of Scorpio. 
November 3 (+/− one week) is an important date, as Mars transits 20° Leo, the same degree acti-
vated by the August 12 eclipse. Mars tends to act as a trigger, releasing stored eclipse energy. Western 
Europe is a potential focal point for significant events. Since the subsolar point lies over Iceland, 
this raises concern about volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, or tsunamis in the Arctic Ocean—or acts 
of aggression involving Greenland. This signature coincides with the midterm elections (November 
3) and could correlate with acts of forced assertion, as Mars in Leo is suggestive of ego-driven arro-
gance. Alternatively, it could indicate a war signature—used as a distraction or a unifying force. 
202

--- PAGE 207 ---
Both Venus and Mercury end their respective retrogrades on November 13. This will be followed 
by Mars conjunct Jupiter, the Sun square Jupiter, and the Sun square Mars from November 16 to 19. 
As such, the period of November 13–19 is bound to be extremely important for the financial markets 
and will likely mark a critical reversal period. In 2025, Venus and Mercury ended their retrogrades 
five days apart, April 7–12. Most markets formed an important trough during that time, driven by the 
panic that followed Trump’s tariff announcement. Could the events of November 2026 be an echo of 
April 2025? 
The Sun will oppose Uranus on November 25. We often see public protests, sudden shocking 
events, resignations, scandals, or rebellions under this influence. This could be a period marked by 
erratic news. By December 4, Mars will form a square aspect to Uranus, which is a far more aggres-
sive expression. In 2025, Israel launched its surprise attack on Iran under this signature, commencing 
the 12-day war. This is the aspect of sudden (Uranus) force (Mars), rebellion, rupture, and accidents. 
Events may erupt without warning and break whatever has become too rigid or repressed. In mun -
dane astrology, this configuration almost always coincides with periods of violent unrest, military 
tension, technological accidents, or explosive political developments. 
Critical reversal dates for fall: The following are geocosmic critical reversal dates for financial 
markets during this season. Any market making a two-week or greater high or low can be considered 
a candidate for a reversal within +/− three trading days. The steepness of the reversal depends on 
where each market is in its primary cycle. If it is within the time band for its primary-cycle crest or 
trough, the reversal will be steepest. If it is due for its one-third or half-cycle phase, the reversal will 
be less steep. If none of these apply, the reversal is probably not worth trading. 
October 9–12 
November 13–16 
November 20–23 
December 7 
December 19–21 
In conclusion, the coming year can be summarized as follows: 
• Winter 2025–26: The illusion of financial solidity begins to erode as cracks start to surface. 
• Spring 2026: A bold assertion of executive power, legislative breakdowns, and strain with 
allies. The illusion of prosperity and strength built on weak foundations (Saturn–Neptune) 
begins to fracture. 
• Summer 2026: The United States projects confidence through the America250 celebrations 
and media spectacle, but the Mars–Uranus conjunction warns of hidden enemies and poten-
tial shocks. 
• Autumn 2026: A period of confrontation and reckoning as hidden tensions erupt. As the 
mask slips, the crisis unfolds. 
References 
1. McWhirter, Louise. Theory of Stock Market Forecasting. American Federation of Astrologers, 2008. 
203

--- PAGE 208 ---
204

--- PAGE 209 ---
2026 GEOCOSMIC EPHEMERIS AND ASTRO CALENDAR GUIDE 
On the following pages you will find the Geocosmic ephemeris (on the left-hand pages) and the 
Astrological Calendar Guide (on the right-hand pages), for each month between January 2026 and 
April 2027. 
The ephemeris is provided by Astro Computing Services (ACS) of Epping, New Hampshire. 
The page is divided into 4 sections. The top section lists the planetary positions as of midnight, GMT 
(Greenwich Mean Time). The middle section gives the positions of the declinations and latitudes of 
each planet for each day, as of midnight GMT. The right of this section, and a little lower, are the 
Moon phenomena. Of most importance are the two right columns, titled “V oid of Course Moon” 
(symbol for the Moon). The farthest right-hand column gives the Moon Ingress, which lists the times 
when the Moon enters each sign of the zodiac, basis GMT. This is especially important for traders 
who trade the Solar-Lunar cycles, as I do, and as outlined in The Ultimate Book on Stock Market Tim-
ing Volume 4: Solar-Lunar Correlations to Short-Term Reversals and The Sun, The Moon, and The 
Silver Market: Secrets of a Silver Trader. The bottom part of the page shows the “Daily Aspectarian,” 
which lists the exact time that aspects form between any two planets (including the Sun and Moon). 
These are important in identifying “Geocosmic Critical Reversal Dates” in the MMA Monthly Cycles 
Report, as well as this Forecast 2026 book. 
The right-hand page is a day-by-day calendar, showing the times that each aspect and planetary 
ingress takes place. The times in the calendar have been adjusted for the EST (Eastern Standard 
Time) zone. It is not adjusted for daylight savings time. Here too one can instantly see if any particu-
lar day has more than, or less than, the usual amount of geocosmic activity going on. One can also see 
when planetary aspects are occurring close in time to one another, which is the basis for identifying 
a “Critical Reversal Date,” as described in The Ultimate Book on Stock Market Timing, Volume 3: 
Geocosmic Correlations to Trading Cycles. 
205

--- PAGE 210 ---
January 2026LONGITUDE
Day   Sid.Time 12 hour  Mean       True 1st of Month7 7 6c5 .O b9G
4M J J J a0 8 g
V h E
0Ha g
V TJ
F J
TN E
LM #Eh
g C
E
V h E
E
V T h#E
# E
V hF TE
EV
h ET
V E#
TET
V V E
# h E
V Eh
E#
d
TE
V V Eh
E#
V hE
#Eh
V T E
h h Eh
V h h V # FhE hFTEV #N Eh E E T h E E VF hEh VEh T TEh F hE E
VV Vh hTEh h#E h hET h TE# TE T TEh EV V EV E T E E E
Vh Vh V V hE# h #E# E# E E T hE h ET V TE E T ET Eh VE#
a V T# T# # V hhEV h hE E #E# E T E h TET V hE VEh T E E# #EV
V# #V V1hh 1T TE h E #Eh E E T VE h E# V E# VE T hET ET hE
Va Th h TT T h E h E V E E# V ET # hET h ET V #ET VE T E EV E
T ThV# V h e T heVV E hTE T EV V E T TE# # EV h ET V ET VE T TE# E E
# Th T T h# h TE h TE #E # hhET # h E # #E# h EV V VET VET T VE VE VEh
T # hT V V2 ET h #E h E# VE # hE # E h TE V hE TE T E TE TE
h T#h# 2 h # #h EV h E TE h ET VET hTE# h h E V E TE T E# #E ET
a Th h hP #E h ET ET TE h Eh ET h h E V E TE T EV E h EV
TVh V VP V E h #E #E h EV h E TET E V E #E T E hEV h E
a T # Th # Th Eh h ET T E #E E# E E V #E #E T hE ET h E
T ## hN VNh# #E h hE hhE# EV E h h#E TE T h Eh EV T E E# hTE
TT V h# # h ET h h E# h TE# V Eh #E# h Eh Eh T hTET hE T #E Eh h E
V T T h h # h h E E E # h E E h E# Eh T E Eh T TE E E
T T V V h V# E E E E h E h E Eh T TE ET T VE VE Eh
#a Th T # # V #hV VE VE ET h E #E E h E T E EV T E TET Eh
T T # h h T h# Eh E T hE# hE# V E #E # TE T TE E T E Eh VE
ha TT h hh V hE# E # hE hVE T E# Eh # E T E E T E hE #E#
#hh h V V # FT hVEV ET h hE ET # h#E h E# # EV T TE E T E# ET hET
#hT T F# hE hE# E TE # E #ET # E T EV VE T E E EV
#h # h T hhE E E V E E E# # VE T TE# TEV T E E EV
# h h TE Eh E # hTE h #ET E # #ET T E #ET T hE# E VE
a #TV hhT h V TT h E E T VE# E E hE # E T #EV E T hE TE #E
V # V hT h V h hET E # E# h #EV h E #E # h E# # h E E T ET #E hE
Ta # h T hV T # h TEV E h E Eh E E# T VE # h ET E T E h hhE E
# # hV # h h h h E Eh TE h E VEh h ET T E # E E T #E h h Eh E
# h h V # h E ET Eh ET E# E# T E # Eh E T #EV h h E VE
h #V h h# h # h h #Eh EV TEh hEh h E# hEh T E # VET VE# T #E h h E #Eh
#hV hV Vh hFE FE T E V E VET #E T #E #F EV #E T #Eh h hVET E
DECLINATION and LATITUDE
Day 12h Day7 7 6c5 .O b 9 G
C d LM
"0 "0 " 0 "0 "0 "0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
" 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
h V h T hh h T h h h # h V V
V #h # # hT h h h # hh h
h T V hT h h h h # h h
a h h T h hT h h # h h
# h h h h h h V # T h h
Va V h h h h T # hV h T
T h h T hV h h V # # h hT h V
# V h hT T V h h h V # V h# h
h# h h hT h h V h # h h
h T h V V h V h T h # # h V h
a h h h h h T # h V #
T V h h h T # h V V
a V T T h h V h # # hT h V
h hT h V # # hT h # # h V h V
h T hT T T T T h h # # hh # h V
V h # #V # # h hh h h T T h V h#
T h T T V T # h h h V T h h T hV
#a h Vh# hh V V V h h T h V T h h T h
h hV h h h h h T T V h T h
ha hh #V V V h h hT h hVh T T h T Vh
T h h h h hT h h Vh # T h T #
#h hhh h h Vh h hh h# T V V h T V
h # # h hh # T T h T
h T h h h h T # h T
a h hV V h# h hV h h T V h h #
V #V VT T h h h # V h h T h # V
Ta # h h # T T h h h T h h #
# # h V T h h #hT # h h h T V h #
T T h # # h h T V hh h hh T h #
h T #T h T TT T h h h h T h h # T
T V V T V Th # h h h T hT V h #
V h h h h V
V h h h h V
h # h h h T
V V h V h hT T
T h # h V h T
V h # h h #
h T h h h #
V h T h h
V h h h T h # h
h V V h h # h
V T h # T h T h
V # Vh h h V h
V V # # h h h h h h h
# h h hV # h h h
8 "8 4"8 aLM" 8
M M " 7 8 L"MM
"L ""W ""
g L4 /0 4" "LM
fWh " 0
g L48
fWh
g L48
V h
V Vh# # V
T h
# T V h h # h T
hT
V V # #
h h h
T hT h
#
V #
T V #T
9 h
h 9 1
V hVb e V V #
# 9A 2 h hT
h T c P h V
hh9 N
V h9 V #
# #9 #
#b F V
#9 T
T. # hV
T T O T h V
#O
g L48
h h h
I h h h2
: # #
7 V V
DAILY ASPECTARIAN
7hV
7RV
7c
7V#
5SbT
75hh
69
7SGTT
6
7.
7
7OT
7b h
79
7A6
7GTV
7
SbVh
7Ac#
7Rb h
A7hh
7A5 #
6GV#
cSb V
7. V
7
a7OTV
76#h
7bh
79 h
75 V
7cT
7GV
7T#
7AG#V
7D.h
76V
7 h
7SO#
7Db
7S9
7c T
7 V
75Th
V 7.h
a7S6h
7hh
7Sh
cDGTh
7Oh
7bhV
79V
cVT
S7 T
7Sc h
7S5h
7GhT
T 7R.
7D
7SV
76#h
7#h
6h
5DG h
# 7h
7 h
7SG V
7c
75 #
c5
7O
7.Vhh
7hh
79
7AOT T
.
7b
7D9
7A9
7G #
7DO T V
7Dh #
5
7AT
cA.T V
h76h
7Sbh
6Sb
7T #
A.#
5A. V
7. h
75
7 h
7cT
7Ah
7O T
a7bV
79h V
cV
7GTh
d h
7V #
7b
7SOh
c.
7S9V
h
76
D7
7Dc
a7.
7. T
7D5
75T
7DG#
7#
7 h
7c #
7S h
7D6 h
7OT
7Ab# h
5
79 hh
7G
6A. # #
7S. # h
7R6 #
7S h
7R5 V
R7 h
7 h
7Rc
cO V h
5. T
7RG
DO
7.
cb
76
7
V75 h
7
7O V #
6 V
7b T h
7c #
79 h
7G # h
T6DG T
c9 #
7
O h
7Sb V
c
b T hh
#7A.
a6 5 T
7 # T
7 5
7 6
7 O T
7 b T h
7
7 9 #
7DG
7 c h
7D6 hV
6 O h
7 G T
7 . #
6 b
7D5 #
7Dc #
D7 T h
7 h T
6 . V
7 b V
9 V
7RO h
h V
a7R9
c G hV
O b
5 b #
5 O V h
7 .
6 9
6 V
7 T
7R
7 b #
7 O T
7 5 T
7 9 V V
7 6 # T
7
7 G h
7S.
6 h
7 c V h
7 h
7R
h h
7 V
7R5 # T
R7 hT
7R6 V #
7RG V
7 . V
6 G T V
Rb # hV
7DO h h
7Rc
7D #
7 h h
7D9
5 9 V
b T
7 b hh
5 #
7 O
G h h
6D5 h h
7 9 T
7 9 #
7 5
7
7 O T
7 G
7 h #
c b
7 6 T
7 c
7Rb #
7
7D # h
7 . T
C F
a7
7 b T
7 O
7 9 # h
7 5 #
V7 G h h#
Dc
7
7 c h
7 h
7 6 h
7Db
7 c
7 6
7RO V
7 T h
9 T #
7 5 #
7R9
T7 . h
a7D.
6 b #
7 G T
7 h
7 b V
7 O T
D9 h
7R V
7 9 h
5 G h
#7R. #
cRO h
7 G
7 5 hV
7R h h
7 h#
6RO #
7 6 h h
7 c h
7 h
c T
7 . V
6
7SG T
7S5
6 c h #
7 h
6R9 #
cR9
S7
7 b #
7 O #
7 9
7Sc T
h7S6 h h#
7 G
7 5 T T
7 V #
D6 #
7Rb h
6 . h
7
7 c h
7 .
7 6
c . h
7
7 b V
7 O

--- PAGE 211 ---

            
  
  
                    
             
              
               
               
    


 









 


 

   

 

 


 

 




             
     
   
   
  


 

 

 


   


   

 
       
  
   
                 
              
              
              
              
    
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
      
     
    
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  


--- PAGE 212 ---
February 2026 LONGITUDE
Day   Sid.Time 12 hour  Mean       True 1st of Month7 7 6c5 .O b9G
4M J J J a0 8 g
V hT E
0Ha g
V #J
F VJ
TN E
LM EV
g C
F E
V E
hE
V T h ET
# E
V h ET
E#
V hE
E
V T hVE
# TE
V h VE#
d
h E
V h EV
E
V # hE
h ET
V #E
a # hTV # T1hh hFET FhTE #E # hEV V EV VE# T EV #F #E E T TE# h h#E E#
## h## 1h#hV h# h #E hE E E T hEV E T Eh # E h EV T TET h hE ET
a # hh # hh e T h E hE hhE# h E # TEV E T h#E # hE h E T TEV h E# EV
#V hhh e## # TT h E hE TE VE h EV V E T h E # VE h Eh T TEV h E TE
hh# V h h 2# h Eh hE V E EV EV V E V E h E hVET T TEV h E E
V h T # T2hT TV h E# hE # EV VE h #ET V E V E# h#ET h#EV T TET h TEh E
T h# # h h V h EV hVEh hFh E E E# T hEV V E# E hE T TE# h #ET E
# a # P #PV# h hE hTE hE V TE E# T hE V #Eh E E T #Eh h hE Eh
V h T V h h hVE h#E E # E hhEh T EV V E TE E T #E h E VE
ha h V h NVT h hE h#E VE# TEV TE # h E V VE E VE T #E h E #E#
# #N h E hTE V TE# hF E# E # E V E hE #E T #E h VE hhEV
# VhT h hTV V hV VET h E # VET #Eh E # Eh V VE VE# hE T E h #Eh h E
V# hT # EV h E h Eh E V h#EV h E V E E EV T ET h E h E
VhT T# #V h # hE hET VE #E V E# E V hVE E E# T hE h E# hVE
a hh V #hT V TE # ET E# E T Eh E V h E# h hVEV TE T hE# h E# hTE
V h T # h V Eh # #Eh E V #E # hE h h E TE h E E T E h ET h ET
Ta TT # # ## hE # TEh V h E # E TE h hE E h hEh ET T Eh h TET E
# F V FhVhT TET #VE T VEh #EV h h EV h Eh #E# h VET Eh T ET h ET E
h hFh# # hh T E # VET # E h EV h E ET E# h E VE T E h ET E
h T hh #h E # TE EV #EV E E Eh h hE #E T E h ET VE#
hh V T VhT #E # TE# h E EV VE E TE h TE E T E h E# #EV
a hhTh T h V T # Eh # #E hE #EV ET E Eh h E E T VE h TE# hE
hV # E# # #E# Eh EV hhE E hET h E VE T TE h E Eh
a h T # V Th #EV #Eh h#E V #E #E VET TET h#Eh E T #E h Eh ET
h V h E # Eh E# # E E #Eh E# E ET T E h E E
V hV T h V # hhV E # #E E #E V E# E E E E T hE h VE TE
T hT # # hh# # h# h E ##E# E h E T hEh hhE# ET E TE T E h #E #ET
# h Fh h 1h FhE #F#E# F EV F #Eh T TE E TE VE E T ET hhE hE
DECLINATION and LATITUDE
Day 12h Day7 7 6c5 .O b 9 G
C d LM
"0 "0 "0 "0 "0 "0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
" 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
a Th # V V V V h h T h T h # h
V # V h# V # h h T h # h # h h
a V h hVh hh h h V # h T h
VT V# h hh h h h V h h h
h V h# hT ## h h h V h h
V #T T # h h V h h
T h T h # V # h h V V h T h
#a h VV #V T V #h h h V h h
h T h T T TV h h V h h
ha h# h h h T T h h V # h h h
hV V T # h T T h h V h hV h
V # h # # h h# # T h V V h h h
V #V h TV #h h # Th h V h T h h h
h VV # T T# hh # V T h V T T h h # h
a # h V hh hT # V h V # h h V h
V hV V #hV T hV h # V h V h h h
Ta h V h hh # Vh h h V h h h h
# h V h # h V V h h h T h
h h h hVh # T h V h h h h#
h h Vh hT Vh h # T h V h h h#
h# # T h TV T h h V h h h h#
a hV V h# # V TV V # h Vh V hV h h V h#
h # T h V T V h h V h h h h#
a VV h V V T T hV h V h h h h#
h T V # h h T h hV h h h # h#
V ## #V h #h h T T hV h V h h h#
T # TV VV hV V T hV h h h#
# #h h V h h h# T hV Vh h h#
h T h h h #
V h T h hV Vh
# h V h h #
V h V V h h # V h
h T h h #
V h h # h h h #
# h h h hV h h h h h
V # T # T h h h T h h h
T V h # h h
V T V hT h T h h #
h V h T h h h h #
V V h h h V V h h# h T
8 "8 4"8 aLM" 8
M M " 7 8 L"MM
"L ""W ""
g L4 /0 4" "LM
fWh " 0
g L48
fWh
g L48
h h
h h V h T
h
#
# V h h
h
T T
Th
V # V
O 1 h h
Vb e
T hOA 2
T h c P T
h T h c N h T
hO V
b V #
T h F T h
b h
5
hb h
h 5 V
# b 1 # # #
g L48
h 1h
I hP V
: T h # h
TT h h hJ
7DAILY ASPECTARIAN
79h
a7Gh
7D.T
7AGV
6Dc#
7A5hT
75hV
7Dbh
A7h
5b#
7SO
7S9V
7
7.T
7#V
7AcT
7c
76V
7A6T
7T
ROT
7bV
6h
a7O
79
7Sh
7R.Th
7Ghhh
7Dh
7STT
75hT
R9
b
7V
7#V
7. #
7SG V
7OTh
7ch#
7h#
c
79
7S5hh
7D
7
76 h
7b h
7D9Th#
7AOTh
7A9hh
7DOhh
6b
#
S7 T
.Vh
7GVV
.
V 7Sc
75Vh
7SbhT
6O
7S6
7VT
7.T
7A#h
7 h
6F
T 69 h
7A
7D6V V
7c h
7Dc T
7b
7OT
D7#
79
6S.
76 h
# 7G hh
a7D5
cb h
6R
7bV #
75h
7SOhh
7S9
7.
6G
7Thh
7. #
7
7DG
7T V
hcO
a7Ab T
7OV
7cTh
9T
79#
7S.h
cF h h
7S h
7G #
c9#
76 h
7Sh
5RO V
6 h
cS.
75
7.V
6R T
7 #
7RG
#
5R9
7V
7V
7b V
7O h
79h
7R5
5. V
7c
7G
R7
cGV
76#
7Sbh T
O h
cR h V
7A.
75 T
7h
7Rc h
7T
7 h
7b
a7R6
7OV
79T
7DG
7.h h
O h#
7G
7c h
Vb h
7b T
7RO h
76 h
7R9
7. V
75# h
7h
7D5 T
6.
T7
acRV hh
7 b
7 h
7 O
c #
7 9
7S.
D7
7 G
#7R h T
7 hV
7Dc #
7R
V
7 c # h
F
7 . #
7 6 h
7D6 T
7RG h
7 5
7 T
7 T
O
7DO V
7 # #
9 #
S. h
7D9
7 b
7 9 V T
5 T T
7 O
6RG h
7 O h
7 9 h V
7
7D hh
h7 6 h
7 G h
7R5 T
6 V
O 9 V
7Rb T
7 c # h
7 c # V
7 . h
7D h h
R7 #
7
7 6 T
7
7 5
7 V
7 b
7 5
7Rc h
7 9 h
a7 O h
7
7 G V #
7R6 h
5 V
6DO T #
7Db T T
c . h h
G h
7 . T
7R9 h
7 c
7RO h
7D. V
7 G
7 6
7
7 V h
7 5 T h
#
7 b h
7R. V
a7 9
7 O T
7 G T
7
V
6D9
7R V h
7R T T
7 .
7 c h
7SG
. G
7 6 V
7 # h
7 #
7 5 h
cRG V
V7 b V
7 9 V #
6 V
7 O T
7 G V
7 h
T7S5 T
7Rb
7 . T
R
5 b V
7 c # hh
7 6
7 hh
S7 V
7 T
R #
#7 b
7 5 h
6 c V
7 9 h h
7 O h
7D.
7 G
c V h
7AG V h
7S6 h
7Sc #

--- PAGE 213 ---

            
      
     

           
   

             
     
 
             
    
 
 
       
       
      
 
       
    
 
       
       
  
       
     
 

--- PAGE 214 ---
March 2026LONGITUDE
Day   Sid.Time 12 hour  Mean       True 1st of Month7 7 6c5 .O b9G
4M J J J a0 8 g
V hhE
0Ha g
V #J
F J
TN E
LM E
g C
F E
V hE
hE
V V E
# E
V E
hE
E
V h E#
VEh
V V hTE
T TE
V h EV
h VE#
d
hhEh
V T E
hFh E
V E
h E
V T E#
VEh
a hV hF 1hV V1hh FhET #F#E F #E F E# # EV Eh E E h ET T E h EV Eh
h h # E # E #E TEV E h E# E hEV h E T E h E# EV
a h h Ve h ehh # VE # E h hE E hF E TEV E# TE# h#E T VEV hTEh E
hTh h h# V # # E # E h h E V TE hVE E hE h Eh E T #Eh h E VE#
h h T 2 V 2hTh # hEh # #E# EV # E# ET V E h#E E E T E E #E
V h # h Th h # VE# # #E # E VE Eh V E hTE# E TE T Eh E E
T h# V h T Phh # ET # TE T hE h E #E V E hVE VE# hEh T EV ET E
#a h T hT hPhT V # # hE # VEh V hEh ET E T TET hVE E Eh T E #Eh Eh
hV# # hT h # # TE # E E hE h E# T hEh h ET E VE T E# hE E
ha h h Nh hNh # E # Eh E E hEh # h E h E #E# E T TE E E
h h V hh # # hE #E Eh E V TE # ET h E VE E T E ET TE
## T T V # TE# # EV TE V Eh T E # TE h E h E E # h E VE #E#
V V hh# # EV # E #E # h#E # E# h ET h EV hE #E # h E E hE
V h#h # hh # E # E h E Eh # Eh E hVEh #E ET # h E# E EV
a hT h # # #E # VET h E h TE VE Eh hVET E# E # hVET ET Eh
V T # #V # E # TE E E h E h TET hTE E #E # h#ET E E
Ta # V hT hF TFh # E ##E# E hVE hET h hE h#EV hEV E # hET #E ET
# T T h h V # h#ET # #E # EV hET hTE h E h E# #E EV # ET hE TEh
V # T T # # hE # #E # E Eh E VE E EV TE # E# ET #E
h hh hV # h # hE # VE # E V E E E E h Eh h E # TEh Eh EV
hT h V h # T E # E # E # h EV E E ET hE h EV # E TE hhE#
a #h h h h T T VEh # hE # E TE VEV E VET #Eh hTE # E EV h Eh
h hh h #T V T E# # TE # E h E V h ET #EV #E E E # EV E# h E
a hV T V V VhT T EV # E# # #E VE V hE E# E Eh ET # E E h E
h hT h h T VE # E #E hhE T TE Eh E# hE #E # #E VE h EV
V h h T T E # E E E # Eh h#E VEV #Eh E # hEV #ET hVET
T TV V hhh h # T hE # EV h E #EV E ET E E Eh # E hhE hTE#
# T 1 1 V T VE # E h TE V EV E E EV h E #E # E h E h#E
a # # hT # T ET # VEV E T VEV h VE #E E hE E # #Eh h E hEh
h V #h eVV ehV T hEV #TET hTE hEV E Eh E TE E # hE hTET Eh
a h TT h TFTE #FTEV F E# h E F hE V h E Eh E #E # E hEh Eh
DECLINATION and LATITUDE
Day 12h Day7 7 6c5 .O b 9 G
C d LM
"0 "0 " 0 "0 "0 "0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
" 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
a Th h # # hh hh # T V hV h h V h#
TT T # h V V h hV h T h h#
a V h V # h h hV h h h h#
V h h h h h # hV hV h h hT h#
Vh# h h# V h h h T hV h h h h h#
V # h T V hV Vh T V h h h#
T T V T # h h hV h V h h h#
#a # T h h V h h# hV h V h h V h#
h # h hh h hV h h V h h h#
ha Vh# T h h h h h hV h # V h h h h#
# T # h hhV h h V V h h T hT
# # h h h h# # h V h h hT
h T V hV h h V h V h h hT
T h h h V h V h h # hT
a h h h # h V T V h h hT
V h Th T h #T h V V h h hT
Ta V h hT h V V V h # h V V h h hT
# h T hT V h V hT #h h V V h h V hT
h# hV V V Vh V T h T h T h# h V h h hT
h h T hh TV T h T h T # hT V h h h hT
h h # V V T hV VT h T hV h T # h V h h T hT
a h h V # T h VT h VT h T T h h h hT
hT V h T h# T T hT V h T T h h h hT
a h Th T T h T T h V h T T h h h hT
#h h # T #h hh #T h h # hV T h h hV hT
V hT TV V # # hT h #V h h # V h h h h#
T V #hT h h# h # V h h hh h#
# #h hV hV V h # h h h h#
a # VV V h #h h# h h # h # h h hV h#
h h h # h T h# h h h # T h h h h#
a h h# hT h TT h h h hh h h h h h#
h h h T #
V T h h h h #
h h h # # h
V # h h h #
h h h T h h h # #
V h h h h h h h # # V
h h h h h h # T T
V h # h h hT h T
V h T h h hT # h hV h V
h h h T hV h h h V
V h h h h h h h
h h # h T h h h
V h h h hh h
h h # T T h h h
8 "8 4"8 aLM" 8
M M " 7 8 L"MM
"L ""W ""
g L4 /0 4" "LM
fWh " 0
g L48
fWh
g L48
V h
h
h V
h h #
h #
T h
# h
VV#
V #
h h
h h h
5A e
b 2 # T
. P T h
bA N #
h h#
b
V #b F V T
h
h c V V
b # h
#c h
T b 1 T
T c e
g L48
e
3 E
I h hN
: #F T
7 h
DAILY ASPECTARIAN
7V
a7DbhT
7.h
7S9 h
7SO
cVT
76
7h
7c h
7 h
7b#T
75 V
7A5
7R. T
5F T
79
7OVhh
cTT
5S.h
7Gh
7D
a7S
7ST#
7hT
A7
7. T
7D#
7SG h
7A6hh
59T
7c
7OTV
7#
79
76
7
6D9
6RG
7Ac
7b
7D9h
7D6h
7DOVV
cbV
7Dc
7A9h
75
7AOh
7G V
7T
5Oh#
D7
6DO
.T
7Sbh
7.
7 V
V 7
6Dc T
7S5
76h
7D5h
c hT
7ATh
cDO#
7A hh
7b
T 7c
79V
S7T
7S6T #
#
cD9# h
7O#
6 h
c9 #
75
7G
# 7b
a7. T
76 #
7S9
cO
5G
7SO
7Sc
7
7DG
7.
7 #
6.
7 T
7Ab
7S.
79#
b# #
7O V
c9 hT
h7ch
a7G
75 #
cOV
cGV
RG#
7Sh
7S#
76 hh
dF T
7. h
6R
.
D6V
7RGT V
h
7 h
5V
7T
7bh h
7
79Th
7Oh
7G #
7chhh
75h T
c5
76 h
7SbV h
7A. h
c hh
7
7R5
7 hh
7R6 V
7b
7 #
7. #
79 #
7DG # T
6c hh
7O #
5R
7G h V
a T
OD9
65 # h
# T
R7 #
76 h T
75 h
7c
7b #
6R h
7.
7R9 h
V7RO h
7
7 V h
7Rc
7b #
7S.
T7 h
acRb T
7 9
7 O #
7 G # h
7 #
h
7 6 V
7D5
7R T h
7 h
7 5 h #
7D6
#7 c h #
7 . h
7R hh
7 c h
7RG h
c . V h
D7
7
7D9 T
b h
7DO h
7 O
7 9
7 h hT
7 b h
7
7 V
7 9 T h
D9 T
7 O h
7 G
DO T
7Dc #
7 6 # #
9 h
h7 6 h h
7D h
7 5 h
7Rb
7 5
5
6D5
7 .
6 T #
7 c
7D h
T
6
7R6 V
7
7 b
7R5 V h
O T T
7 T V
7 9 V
7 h
7 O
7 G T
9 #
7 6 h T
c 5 h h
a5 . h h
7Db h
7 . T T
7 5 #
R7 h #
7R9 h
9 h
7RO
7 c T
7 G T
7D. # h
7 h
7 b
7R. #
7 9 T
7 h
7 #
7 O
7 G V
7Rc h
7 6
h hV
a7R
7 . V
cD
6 c h
7 5 h#
6
7R
7SG T
7 c #
7 #
7 b # hh
O # V
7 9
7 T
G # #
7 O # h
h
7 G
7
V7 6
7Rb #
7 .
6Rc
7 5 h
c V
T7S6 V h
7 V
7 c V
6R
7 b
7D. V
7 G T
7 9 T V
5R
7 T
7S5
7 O h
7AG
# 7 T
5RG hT
7 6 V
7Db h
O
G
7 . T
7S9 h
O G
cD h hT
a7SO
7 5 h#
S7 # hT
# h
7
c b
7 b T h
7 c T
7R. h
7 9 V
h7Dc
7D
7 G hh
7 O
7 V hT
7D # h
7 6 T
7
7S V
c V h
7A6 #
5 V
7Sc
7 . h #
a D7
7 5 #
7SG # V
7S h
7A5
7 9 # T
7 # #
7DO hT
7 O h
7D9 h

--- PAGE 215 ---
< 6
% =
6 $F*
< 7
! H^ $ 1
< 8
! A#
$A(
$A& ^H#
< 9
$F_
^
< 0 < -
%A# < = $G^ ! - < 2
!F* # %H^
=
< 1
! A( < 3 ! A& < 5 &F_
< 4
!F_
< 6 $ 2 < 7
March 2026:Modify New York Stock Exchange Zone:-5
Sunday Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursd ay Friday Saturday 
1 2 
7:32AM <->0600 
9:14AM %->0=00 
3 
6:36AM Full Moon 6 
4 
11:40AM $F* 
1:54PM <->0700 
5 
12:13PM ! H^ 
6 
5:45AM $->0100 
11:00PM <->0800 
7 
6:00AM ! A# 
6:26AM $A( 
8 
8:39AM $A& 
9 
12:22AM ^H# 
10:35AM <->0900 
10 
1:51AM $F_ 
10:28PM ^Direct 
11 
11:06РM <->0000 
12 13 14 
10:12AM <->0-00 
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 
3:06AM %A# 6:14РM <->0=00 11:08AM $G^ 9:45AM !->0-00 1:34AM <->0200 
3:19PM !F* 2:31PM # Direct 7:00PM %H^ 
8:22PM New Moon = 
11:01PM <->0100 
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 
6:17AM ! A( 3:17AM <->0300 3:54AM ! A& 9:09AM <->0500 5:11PM &F_ 
5:31АM <->0400 
1:15РM !F_ 
29 
2:32PM <->0600 
30 
11:00AM $->0200 
31 
9:49PM <->0700 
February 
S M T W T F S 
1  2 3 4 5 6 7 
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 
April 
S M T W T F S 
1 2 3 4 
5 6 7 8 9 10 11 
12 13 14 15 16 17  18 
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
26 27 28 29 30

--- PAGE 216 ---
April 2026 LONGITUDE
Day   Sid.Time 12 hour  Mean       True 1st of Month7 7 6c5 .O b9G
4M J J J a0 8 g
V E
0Ha g
V #J
F J
TN E
LM hTE
g C
F hET
V E
hTE
V V EV
# hE
V E
h Eh
V h E
TE
V #ET
E
V V TE
d
hF E
V EV
E
V T E#
E
V hE
T V #e## 2 TFE #FVE F E# #E FhTEh V E VE# E E # EV E Eh
2 T ## T Eh #E# E E Eh V ET hE# hE E # #E E E
# h T TE # TE E hVE hE T VE Eh TE# E # hE VET E
VPh Ph# T ET # E V TE# E TET T hEh E E Eh # EV Eh E#
a h # T E # E T #E V EV V EV # h ET V h E# V h EV VE # VE E VET
V T V h hN T VN # T h#E # #E # EV T TE T h E # TE V h#E V hE V hhE # E E TE
Ta hh# T h## # hh T hE # ET #E# h Eh T #E # E V E V TE V h ET h E ET #E
# hh # h hh TT T hEh # h#E h TE h EV # Eh E V #E V E V hTE h ET TE E
hh hh T T V #E# # hE #E #E E# E V E V E V hE# hTE hE E
h # h h#hT T V EV #hE EV E# h h#E h h Eh V #E V EV V E hE E hET
V hTh h h V h V E # hEV VE E h E h VE V E V TEh V #Eh E E E
a h h # h V E # hE# E h#E# E h hE V hEh V E V EV VE VEV E
# hV hT Fhhh V VE #hTE T hEV V E #EV E V E# T h EV V E E #E# E#
a # hV #FV hh V E # hTE# # E T ET E Eh V ET T h#E V #E# E Eh E
h hT # VT V ET # hVE #E # Eh h E# h E V TE# T VE V E E E E
V VT V hh hh V VE # hEh E h h E #E TE T h E T E V VE #E E EV
T h V h T T V E T Eh hE ET E E T hE T hET V ET E TE E
# h T #V V V hE T E h#ET #E V E E T TE T TE V E E E ET
a #T # TT h T # V TEh T E E E T hTE# ET T E# T E V VE TE EV VE
h VT h V E# T VE T E E T E h E T hEV T E V hE hEV EV VET
a Vh h V V V V hET T EV # E V h#E # hEV #E T TEV T E V E E# ET TE
hhT hV h h V TE T E h hET T EV TEh E T ET # hVE V TET TEh TE# TEV
h # # h V V E T EV #Eh # EV h E VET T Eh # E T h E hE E# #Eh
h#h hh# 1#T 1 V E T hEV TEh TEV h EV Eh T E # hE T h E E h E# #E
hV # V hT Th V h#Eh T Eh TE# hhEV E# V h E # hVE # TE T h#E VEV h E# #ET
V a Vh Th h eV V hE# TE# T hhE E Eh V ET # EV # E T E E h E# Eh
T V e # h# V hEV T E # E VE #E V E # E # E T ET h h E hTE# E
#a V T # 2 #E T hE h hE E h E T #E # hE # #E T E h hVE h E# E
T # h T2#V h E T VE TE# E hE T E # #E # E T E# h h ET ET E#
h h h V FE TFhE hTE T h EV VE # hTE # VEV h Eh T VE h E EV hEh
DECLINATION and LATITUDE
Day 12h Day7 7 6c5 .O b 9 G
C d LM
"0 "0 "0 "0 "0 "0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
" 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
# hh h TT # # hT h h h h#
VVh T T T h h h h h # h#
T h T V h h h h h h h#
T T VV Vh h h # h h h#
a Vh V T hT V h h V h h T h#
V V hT V V # h hT h Vh h h h h#
Ta V T h T# V hh h h h h h h h h h#
# ThT #V # # h hh h h h # h h h h#
Th T T hhV h h T # # h h # h#
h T V # h V hh h hh h V T # h h h#
# V Vhh hh h hh h T h h h#
a #V Vh T # V hh h hVh h V h h T h#
## h V hh hh hVh h V h h h#
a h #T hh h # T hh# h h h h h h
hT T T hh h h # h h h
V hh Th T T # h h h h V h h # h
T h hV T # #h hV h# h h h
# h T T V hV # # h # h# # h h h
a hV V hh # h h T h # T h hV h
h T VhV hV T# h T T h hT h h h h h h
a T #hh # h V hT hT hT h h
h# TV Th hh hh h T hV h h
# # h h hV h # h T h
# T h h h h h hV h h T h h h
hT TT h# T V h h# # hV # h V h h
Va T h T V h hV h T h h
T V V hT # # h h h T h T h
#a h h# T hV h V h h h
# #h V h# h h h h h h
h hT # T# h h h h h h h
h T h h h h # T T
V h h V h h h T #
h h h h h T
V h h h h h hT T Vh
h h V h h h h # h
V h # h h h h h h # h
h V Vh # h # h h h
V h T h # V h T h h h
h# h T Vh V h h h
V # hh T # h h hV h
T h T hT hT T h hT h
V hV V h T hV h h# h
8 "8 4"8 aLM" 8
M M " 7 8 L"MM
"L ""W ""
g L4 /0 4" "LM
fWh " 0
g L48
fWh
g L48
V V hT h
T # h V# # T
h
T h V T V V
h hV
hh #
V T h
# h
h b 2
# V. P
hbA N
# 5 # h
h b h T
T b F # T
h#b h
T T
Vb V
h 5 T h
b 1
6 e V hV
T . 2 # h
h # 6A P h h
g L48
2
I h h h
: T T
7 1 V
DAILY ASPECTARIAN
7bh
7cV
7A9Th
7D5hhT
c9h
7G
7AOV
7h
7
7D6
A7
O9h
7Sbhh
76VT
7.#V
7h
7
7c
75hh
7AhT
7bhhh
6.h
7S6V
Rbh
79V
7AcT
7G#
cG
7OV
7A#
7S5T
7b
cO #
5
7T
7.
7S9 #
76 V
7SO
a7DG
7.Vh#
7 h
75Th#
7Ab h
.
6hh
V 7S.
S7 h#
79
7Gh
7Oh
7cVT
7Th#
c
7S #
T 7.##
a7hV
6RGh
7RGV
76VV
# 7Shh
7ScV
7 V
75
7bh V
5bV
79ThT
D T
7G
7O T
7T#
7c #
7SbV
5 T
7A.
h7
h
76
5O
7V
7b
75
.G
7DG
7.
79
7Gh
7O V
7R6h
7bh V
7h
6R
a7c
5D9Vh
7.#h#
7R5#
7R9
6
7c
7RO#hV
7
7
76 V
59
59
7bT
c.#
7S. V
7 h
79 h
75
7
7G# T
7h
7O V
R7
acR9 T
7R V
7V
7.
6bT
7c#
7RG
7D6 #
6
7O
75 V
7
7D9T T
79# h#
7#
7R T
7D5h
7DO hV
cR5 V
7b h#
76 T
76 h
79# V
5DO
75 h
7Rc
7G T
V7O
7 V
7Rb
7.#
5G# T
D7 V
7D
T65h
7c
69 h
7D h#
7h
7
6O
D T
7 b
7 9 h
7 6
#7 G h T
7 5
cRO
7 O
7Dc V
7Db h
7 T
7 . h h
6 G h V
7R9 h
7R6 T
a7D.
7 G V
7R5
6D9 h
7RO
7 c V
6 9
7
7 h
7 b V
b T
7R. h
7 9 h #
5 O
h7 G h
h
7 6 h
7 O h
7 5
6 O
7R V
7
R7 T
7 . h
6 5 V
7SG
a6DO T
7 c
7 #
cDb
c V
7R V T
7 b V #
7
7 9
7 G h
7 O V
7 5
7 6
7Rc
7Rb T
7 #
7 .
9
D T
7 T
7 c #
7 b
7 G hh
7D. h
7 9 h #
c b
T
7
c h
7AG
7Dc h#
7 O h
7Db
7 5 h
6Rb # h
7 6
7
6D5
7S9
7 .
7SO h
6
G V
D7
7
7S5 h
7D
Vb h
a7 b hV
C h
7S6
7 c
7D V T
7 9 V T
7R. T hV
6Rc h
7 G h
7
7 O T hh
c 9 T
6 . #
cR.
7S
T7 5
7D6 h
7D5 T
7 # T
7 .
7 6 h
7SG h
S7 #
7DO
#7D9
a7 9 h
7 hh
7 O T
7 b
7S
7A9 h#
c G V
7 G
7 c
7 5 h
7
7AO h#
7 6
O V hT
5Rb h
7Sb
7A5
7
7 . hT
7 T
h7Sc T
R9 V
7A6 #
7 hT
7A hV
cD. V h#
7 T
7 b

--- PAGE 217 ---
7 #H^
< 8
$G)
! G^
<
< 0
%F*
% 1 < -
%A( #F* < 1 %F_ 1 #F_
$F^ # 1 #A( < 2
< =
< 3 #A& < 4 < 5 ! G _
%A& #A% $ A* * 3
! 2 $ 3 < 6
$ F( < 7 < 8
# G^ $H_
April 2026:Modify New York Stock Exchange Zone:-5
Sunday Monday Tuesday  Wednesday Thursd ay Friday Saturday 
1 2 3 4 
9:10PM Full Moon7 6:27AM #H^ 
7:09AM <->0800 
5:37PM $G) 
5 
5:21PM ! G^ 
6:30PM <->0900 
6 7 8 
7:03AM <->0000 
11:10AM %F* 
9 
2:35MP %->0100 
10 
6:54PM <->0-00 
11 
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 
12:29AM %A( 12:09PM #F* 9:02AM <->0100 1:55PM %F_ 6:50AM New Moon1 3:33PM #F_ 
3:20AM $F^ 10:20PM #->0100 9:00PM #A( 10:56AM <->0200 
3:54AM <->0=00 
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 
11:16AM <->0300 6:21AM #A& 11:59AM <->0400 2:39PM <->0500 11:32AM ! G _ 
5:42PM %A& 4:44PM #A% 8:57PM $ A* 7:48PM *->0300 
8:38PM !->0200 11:02PM $->0300 8:03PM <->0600 
26 27 28 29 30 March May 
12:42PM $ F( 4:01AM <->0700 2:00PM <->0800 S M T W T F S S M T W T F S 
1:32PM # G^ 11:39AM $H_ 1 2 3 4  5 6 7 
8 9 10 11 12 13 14 
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 
22 23 24 25 26 27 28 
29 30 31 
1 2 
3 4 5 6 7 8 9 
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 
17 18 19 20 21 22 23 
24 25 26 27 28 29 30 
31

--- PAGE 218 ---
May 2026LONGITUDE
Day   Sid.Time 12 hour  Mean       True 1st of Month7 7 6c5 .O b9G
4M J J J a0 8 g
V V E
0Ha g
V #J
F VJ
TN E
LM VE#
g C
ET
V h E
E
V V h Eh
T E
V # E
h VE#
T E
V # E
h#E
V VE
h VEV
V h E
h E
d
F VE
V V ET
# hE#
V h E
h E
V h#E
T h#E
h #V P #PV# F#E TFhhE# #E # TE V E # E# # E h#E# T E h VE E hE
Vh h h ET V ET T E E T h#E # VE h E E T E h E# TE hE
a h V h N h# E V TEV ET h E T E hET E# E T TEh h E E hE
T #Nhh V E V E Eh E # hE E hE #E T hE h VE E hE
a h V #T VE V E hE hTE E h h ET E E T Eh h E Eh hE
V # # T # h Eh V hE# E# E# h ET h E #E E T TE h E E# hEV
T V T TV h E# TE T E E h TE h #ET TE #EV T hE h VET VEV hEV
# h T # V V VET E E V E E E VE E T E h hE #E hEV
hT# # # V V E E #ET T VE# #E# TE# h h E h h EV T TE# h EV hE hE
ha h V V hE E EV h Eh E E h E# h h#Eh # h E h TEh E# hE
h F Fh# TE E V h E h E hhEh VE h E h E # h ET h hE E hE
a h# T V Vh h#h E hE # hE E EV h E h E# h hEV # h#E h E E hE
h # T V # hE# Eh h ET E Eh VE h E h VE # E h TE VE hEh
Th T h# hTEV E# E# TE V VE hET h E h E # E# hhE #E E#
hT # VT h# h E TE hEV h E T h E E h Eh h E # #E h E hE EV
V h h hE #ET V ET V E T TE E Eh h E # E hTE ET E
Ta #h V hT # #h V h #E #E h E T E # E h EV Eh h E # E# E E E
# T T hhV # E hTE E # E TET E E h TE # #E E E# #E#
a V # h # T V ET TEV E VET h h E E# E h E # E #E VE #E
h hh hh Th# hVh #E hEh E h#E h #E V #E ET h E # E E TE# #E
T # # 1 E E T E# hEh E V E h E E # TE# E E TET
# h V 1 # E EV hE EV #E T hTET EV hET # Eh #E hET TE
Vhh V V hV eT Eh E# E E h E T E E VE # E E E VE
a VhVV T e h E# E# hhEh EV #E T TEh E Eh # TE E E VE
Vh T TT # # EV E V h Eh T h E Eh # EV VEV TEV # hE E E VEh
Va V V 2 # 2h#T E #E # h E # TE TE# # VE TE E # E E VE E
T V#V T V Th VE E E #E V h E hE h#E #E # VE VE TE E
# V V hT PV E VEV EV h ET V TE E E E # E E #E# E
VVh T h P#V T E VE TE hE# T E h hhE hE E h E E hhEh E#
h VhhV # T # Th VE# hE TE h E# # VE h ET E h E h E VE h E E
a Vh N V N FEV FhE T E E# h E h E E# h EV h#E hhE h E E
DECLINATION and LATITUDE
Day 12h Day7 7 6c5 .O b 9 G
C d LM
"0 "0 " 0 "0 "0 "0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
" 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
h V h # # h T h # h # h
h h h # hT h V # h h h
a T T T # h h V h # T h
V h T h h V h V h h V V h
a V T# # hT V h V h h #
V V TV T V T T hT ThV h h h
T V VT # hh h# # h T h V h
# T h h # h# # T h h h h
T # hV h # V h hT T h h # h h T
ha T h V V #V h h V # h Vh
Th h# h T V h # h # T h h
a #h h hV V T h# #h h # h h h
#h h h# T hh# # hT h # h hT
# # hT # V hh V h T h h h h
# hh T h h # h T # h
V h hV h h h # h V T h h
Ta T h # V hh h T h h V V h# h V
# h T T T T hT h Vh h h h hT h #
a #h T h h V hT h T h h h
h V VT V h h # h h V h h h
hh # T h h h h V h h
h # V# h V h V # # hh h V
h h h # h h V V # h #
a h Th h h h V h hT h V T h h
h h h V h V h
Va h T T h # # h V V h
T V T T # h h V h h V
# V h hT T h h h h V h h h #
T h h V h T hV hT # h h
h V V T hV h T hV V h
a Vh# T h h# h # T h h
h h h h h h h h h h
V h Vh h h h hV h h h h h h
hV h h h h h h h h
V h h h h h h hV
T h h T h h h # h hT
V h # h h h h h h hT
T h # h h h h h V h#
# V V h h h h
V T h V h h h
T V h h h
V h h Vh h h
h # T h h h
V h h h h
h h h h
8 "8 4"8 aLM" 8
M M " 7 8 L"MM
"L ""W ""
g L4 /0 4" "LM
fWh " 0
g L48
fWh
g L48
h
h ## hT
T h
T h h
T h T hh
T #h#h
# V # h
# h
V T h
h h
# . N V
5 hT
T h5 # T
h h5 F h T
h h c h h
5
T h 6 T
T TO T
h #. 1
hTO e V #
h . 2
T . P # h
h h hV. N h V
g L48
T P
I
: V h h #
7 e
# V N V
DAILY ASPECTARIAN
79T
7G
7c T
7O
A7T
cO#V
6hh
7bhV
cGhV
75
7S9T
7A#V
7.#
.h#
7. h
7DG
7c
7SO V
7
a6 #
76TV
7AbT
6bT
7S5
79 T
7S.
7GT#
7O
7AcTT
7S#hT
7h
6Dh
cR
7S6V
69h
75
7.
7
7RG
5. h
a7 V
S7 V
7bh
6Gh
V 79 h
7GVV
7SVT
76TV
7O
G V
T 5
7Sb
7c #
7 V
7A.
7 V
75 h
# 7ch
6O
7 h
7b#
7DG#V
7Sch
7. V
79
7G#
7b
R9
7O #
6D
76#h
7 T
7R9 #
7ch
7
7. hV
h76
a7 #
7 h
75 h
7RO#
7 hh
7b
7
c h
79h
c.
.
cSG h
7S. h
7G #
75T
7R5 h
7O
7RT
76
a6R9
7RGT
7.T h
7O
7
7chh
7 h
75
79V
7D9T h
7h
7DOh
7b
6.
79V
7G V
7R6 h
R7
7R h
d V #
7O#
ch T
7Rb #
7D5 hh
D6ThV
7Dh
7.
6
7V
76V
7 V V
7c # h#
6 # T
75
7 V
V
7D #
7b #
79 # h
6RO
7G V
6c h
D7 #
7O
7Rc h
7D6
7Db
V7R9 #
7D.
7.
7G
6Db V
65 h
RO V #
6 V
7 #
5
7RO
7 h h
7c
7
T75 h hT
a7 6 h
7Dc T
7 b #
7 9 # V
6 h #
7 G h
7R.
c # h
7 O T
7R V
#6 b h
7R5 h T
7SG h h
7 . h
7 hT
5 T
7
7 V
c hV
a7 c
7 5 #
7 b
6 9 hV
c 5 #
7 9 T h
7 6 # #
7 G h
RO h
6D. T
7 O
7R
6 G
h R7 h
7Rb
c b
7Dc h
7R6 h
7 . #
6R. V h#
5D hT
5 b h
7
7 h
h #
7 #
7 G
7D6
6 G T
7 b
7 5
7 c T
7D. # hT
7 9 T
7AG h
7Db T
D7 T
Db # h
7 6 #
7 O hT
c 9 V
7S9
7Rc T
7D
b T
7 . T
6 O # h
7SO h V
7 #
7
7D5 V h
7D
7 b T
7
7 5
7 9
c G T
7 G V
7 c T h
7R. h
6R T
5 9 hh
a7 O hh
7S # h
7 6 h hT
7S5 #
7DO h h
7SG h h
7 . h
9
7D9 T
7 9 T #
7
7 V
7 O V T
7 b T h
7A9 hV
7
V7 5 h V
a7 G h #
5 G h
7 c T h
# hh
7AO
G
7S T
6Dc h
7Sb V
T6SG
7 6 V
7 V
S7 T
7 .
7 5 #
6R5 T
7A
#7 h h
7 b
7 9 # T
7 T
5
7 G
7A5 T
7
7S6 T T
6 .
7 c h T
7 O h
c O h
7 b T
7 h
7 . V
7S9
7DG h
h7 . h hV
R.
D.
7 6 h
7SO V V
7 c
7Sc V
7 h
7A h
7Ab V V
7 6 T
7 9 h
7 G
7S. V V
a7 5 T
A7 # V
7 O
7S T
7 c

--- PAGE 219 ---

            














 


 


   


   


   


 


 




 


 


   



 

 

 


 

 

 

   

 

 
        
   
        
             
             
         
 
        
     
          
             
             
     
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
       
    
       
       
       
     
 
       
      
       
       
       
  

--- PAGE 220 ---
June 2026 LONGITUDE
Day   Sid.Time 12 hour  Mean       True 1st of Month7 7 6c5 .O b9G
4M J J J a0 8 g
V E
0Ha g
V TJ
F hJ
TN E
LM E
g C
h E
V ET
h E
V E
Eh
V V E
h E#
V hhE
h E
V h E
h #Eh
V E
d
T E#
V TE
hE
V h#E
E
V V Eh
VT h TN#h N V FhE FVE hEh ET EV Eh h Eh ET E h E# h EV E
a V h VT hTE ET h hET V E h hEh #EV E ET E hTE h E# E
V T T hV hE E EV T E E h E VE# ET TE hE# h E hE
V# hT# hVT hhE h ET h ET # E #ET TE# #E EV E E hTEh E#
V h# hTT h TET E #E h hVE Eh E E E ET TET h#Eh Eh
V VT T E VE T h E TEh TE VE h E E E E h Eh #E
T a Th# V V Th F E EV # VE TE E E E E# #E EV hEh TE
# Th T F # #E ET h hhET TE E hVE Eh #E hE #Eh Eh VEV
a Th # # T Eh EV E #E E hEV VE# E E E E E#
h T# h # hh hT E# E hE #E V E E #ET TE VE E# E# E
TT h hV h T #EV hE# E T h#E T hTE ET V hhEV h ET #ET #E ET E
T hT V T # E Eh hTEV # #EV T E E V EV hVEh E EV E E
TT h TV E VE V VE #E # E V h#ET V EV hE E# E E E
a T # V E TE T E h1 #E Eh V E V VE# E VE #E VE E
T Vh h h E TEV # E #E h h ET V TET V #E #E #ET EV VE# hE
Va TThT T Th h E# h#ET E #Eh h VE T E T h E E E E TEV h E
T Th h Vh EV hET h #EV hTEV E T VET T E VE E #E #E h#E
# Thh V #h T1 h 1V VE TE hE TE E # E T ET hEh ET h E #E hTE
T#T T h T # E E #E V VEV VE # E T #E ET #Eh h E# E hVE
h T # T e # eh hE EV E T VEh hE # E T hE TE h hhE h#E hE h E
a TVh # hVE E E # E EV E # h Eh hE# h h E E hEV h E
#hhT h Th 2T# T2# hET E ET E hVE #ET # E E h h EV E E h E
a #h T h VhT hhE EV E h E hE h Eh # #Eh TEV h hVET TET ET h Eh
#h#h V V P T TE E# hhE E V E h TE # hEV hE h h#ET hE E hhE#
#V # #P # V E VET E E T VE h EV # E E h hE# Eh E ET
V #V VhV h T V h Eh E E E# T E E h E TE h ET TE E #EV
T #h N T #N hh TE# hE #E #E # E hE #E hhE h ET hE E TE
# a #V V h hhT h Vh EV hE V h#E V VE E E E h Eh h VEV E EV VE
## T T V # E hEh V E T E h h#Eh #EV E h E h #E VE E Eh
ha # # V # F#E FhhEV V E 1h E h hE# h ET VE h#EV h hE E E E#
DECLINATION and LATITUDE
Day 12h Day7 7 6c5 .O b 9 G
C d LM
"0 "0 "0 "0 "0 "0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
" 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
h Th T# h # h h# T h h V
a h TV h T V h h T hT T h h h T V
T V T h T T h V T # Vh # h V
# h h h # hV T # V h V
V V hT hV h T T h T
V # V# h h Vh h h T T h T
Ta h# hV h hh h # h h h V T
# h V h h T h T h # h # h T T
a hhT h h h Vhh h # V h T
h Vh Vh T T T T T h V h # h hh #
h h VT h # V # h h #
h# #hT h h# h Vh h # V h h #
T V h V hh # # T h h #
a V h TV V # Vh h Th h h # h hV
# TV T # h h TT h # h hT
Va h Th hT VV hh h # h Th h# # h h h h#
T T h# h T h # # Vh h# h V h
# h hT TT hT h h T hT h T h h V h
h T h hV hV h #h hV h V h h V h
h V V h# V h h# hh # T hV V h h V h
a V hT # hh hhh ## h h # h V h
V # hV h h # h V h V h V V
a V #V V h V hT h # #h h h h h V T
hT h V h T h hh T h h V # h h V #
#h h h h h# hV # V h T h # h V
V h h ## h h V h V h
T h h V T TT h h h h V
#a T TT T T T h h h h V
T V TV # # # T h h h h # h V
ha T h V # Vh # hh h h h h h V
# h # h h h h h T h
V h # h # h h h # h
T h # h h h h T hh h
V h T h h h h # h
h T h # h h h h
V # h T h h h h hV
h T h # h# h h
V h T V h V h
V V h # h V h
V T # T h h V h T h
V T h h V h T h
V V h V T h T h
8 "8 4"8 aLM" 8
M M " 7 8 L"MM
"L ""W ""
g L4 /0 4" "LM
fWh " 0
g L48
fWh
g L48
hV VVV T
T V h h
h # h
T h h
T T
T
T # h
h
V V h
# T hV V
# T
O h
h .A T
F T h
h h. #
# c
T . hT
T T . 1 T hV
e #
T . 2 h V
. P V
V T . N V #
# hVc T h
g L48
I # h h TF #
: h
7 T h2
# #
DAILY ASPECTARIAN
6h
7RG
6 T
7.
7S5
7#
cRh#
a7A6
7h
7bh
79V
cRb
7Gh
6
6b
Oh
75hh
7OV
7
b##
7SbhV
7S
7Ac
76T
69h
7A.h
7ch
S7
7h
7DG
7Vh#
7b#h
5O#V
6G#
7
79h
7.hT
Rh
7Gh
76
7b
7O
75Vh
7h
7
T
V 7R9
75T
7c#
7S6hh
7.
7ROhh
7
T 7
a7b
V
7#h
79#
7Ghh
7ScV
76 V
7S.h
# 7O h
7R
9 hh
75 T
7hh
h
7O
7RG
79 T
7c hV
7.hh
a7D9 hT
7T #
7R5h
7DO
7b h
79VhV
7Th
7GT T
cG# T
Dc
c.hhh
hGh
6O h
7OT
76T
75 h
7Rb
G# h
7
7Rhh
7D h
SG h
7.
7c#
7 V
7bV V
7D5T
79
7G h
7 V
R7 V
7D
7O h h
7Db T
76 T
7D. h
75#
7R9
7Dch
7Gh
7hT
D7 #
7D6 T
c
7.T
7ROh V
c1 h #
7
7c
7R6V
7bT
79
7G
5R9
7 T
7R.T
a7Oh h
6Rbh h
7R
7Rc
76T
75h
7SGh
D6h #
7
7.T
7 hh
7cV h
7bV
79 hh
7Gh
7R5
6G
cb
7
V7O
a7RbV h
76h
75 V
T7Rh
c9
7
cD. T
7.T
D7#
7Gh
7 #
7D6 h
7 b T h
7 9 h
7 c h
7AG h h
cAG h
7D. h
7Dc
7Db
#7 V
7D V
R7 # hT
7 O h #
7D5
. h h#
7S9 h
cDb
7 6 h
7 5
7 . h
7
7SO
7D
7 T
T
7 b h hT
7 9
7 G
h7 c
7R6 T
7 V
7R. T
7 O
7S T
7DO
7SG
a # V
7 6 h
7Rc h
7D9 h
7 5 hT
7 9 hT
7 . T
c h T
7 h
T
7 T
7 O
7 b h
7A9 h#
7 G V V
6D.
cD
7 V h
7S5 T h
7 c T V
7AO h#
7Sb T
a6Db # h
7
7 6 h #
7S h
cD5
7 5 #
7 .
7A T h
7
7 b
7 9
7 G V #
b h
7 c h#
7 5 hV
7 T
7
7 6 V T
7 c h
7 O h
7 b h
7 .
c O h
S7
7S9 h
9
V7DG h
7 h
6D
7 6 h
G h
7A5
7SO V
7 . T
7
6D5
T7Ab T
7 9
7 G
7 V h
.Db h
5RO h
7S6 T hT
7A V
7 O h
#7S. h h
a7S
5 .
7 c hV
7RG h #
5 h
7 6
5 V hV
7 . V
7 T #
7 5 # h
7Sc T
7 b h
7 9 V
7 G T
6 T T
A7 #
h. 1
acS9 T h
7 T
7 O
5D
7S5 V
G V #
7Sb h
7 c #

--- PAGE 221 ---

            









 

  


 

 

   


 

 


 

 


   

 
 


     

 


 

 

 

 



 

 
        
 
      
       
       
       
 
 
        
   
       
       
       
      
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
  
       
       
       
       
 
 
       
    
       
       
       
     

--- PAGE 222 ---
July 2026LONGITUDE
Day   Sid.Time 12 hour  Mean       True 1st of Month7 7 6c5 .O b9G
4M J J J a0 8 g
V E
0Ha g
V TJ
F J
TN EV
LM E
g C
T E
V # Eh
ET
V h #E
hhE
V E
h E#
h Eh
V # E
T TE
V V EV
h E
V E
E#
d
# hTE
V TE
h E
V E
hEh
V EV
E
#VV h# h V F E hFET V E# h1 E E VE h1h ET E h Eh E E EV
#h h h # V E hVE# V h ET E VE Eh h EV ET h ET E EV E
# h hV h # #E# h E E TE #ET E h E VE h E #E E# hE
##h h V TV Fh EV h E# E Eh E E h #E #E h TEh E E #E#
a #h hh FhV E h Eh E EV EV h E h E hE# h #E E Eh TE
V # # #hV # T E h E #ET hE hVEh TE E E h hEh TE Eh VE
Ta # h# VE h E hE V TE #E E TE Eh h E hhEh E Eh
# h # h h E h ET E # h E V hEV V E hE VE h E h E# E ET
hT# V hh hh hET h EV E E T E# V E E #E# h E h EV Eh E
h T V# V T hVE h hE E he #E T E T h Eh hVE hE h EV h#E Eh Eh
# h TV # hE h VE h EV E # TEh T VE EV E h VE E E ET
a # V h hhE h Eh E ET Eh T hET ET E# h #E E# E# #E
h # h # TEh h E h E #E h hhE # E E E h E VE EV TEh
a T V E# h E# h hVE E h E# # #E Eh VEV h hE E E EV
T h1 #1 hET h ET #E hE EV h Eh E TE h E ET E E
V hT #hT TE h E # E V VE hVE EV E Eh h E E E E
T h T h# Ve E h E # hE # h E TE E #EV hE h E VE EV E
# T e h Vh E h Eh T hE hTE# E h E# E Eh h E E E hE
a T V T V 2h# TE h E T E h E Eh h VE h E E h E E# E #E#
h h T h2# V h# E# h E T hhE #E E h E #E EV h VE E EV TE
a hT # V# TT h EV h VE# V E# E E# E EV E h VE VET E VEh
h h P P # #E h VE# V EV #E V E VE# E E# h TEV Eh ET EV
hhhh h1 T T T E h E V EV ET V VE hE #E E h #E E E E
hhVV h#h Vh N T E h E# V Eh TE T TE E E EV h #E ET hET E#
hh hT N V T #E h hE V E V E # #E VET ET E# h E E hE hE
Va h hV T hTV ET h hE# V E T E # E E #Eh Eh h E #E EV Eh
T h#V hh h h E h hhE V VEh # #E# hE E E Eh h hE hE Eh TEV
#a h T T h hh# hE VE T hVE E h E hVE V h EV E h hET E #E VE
hV h# h hVE E T E h E h E E V TE# E# h E E TET ET
h hhV V T T VT hEh hEV # hVE #E E E V E E h E VEV TEh E
h T1 V T h hFE# E # VE eh E E E V1 E E h EV #EV VE E
DECLINATION and LATITUDE
Day 12h Day7 7 6c5 .O b 9 G
C d LM
"0 "0 " 0 "0 "0 "0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
" 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
hT h V # T h VV T h h # h h# T h h V
h h T h h # V V h hh h T h V h h h V
# T T #hh h h h T h T h T h V
h h T T# V h # h V h h h T V
a # TT h T# h hV h h V h h T T
V T V h h h h h h h T T
Ta V T T # Vh h h h h# h V h T #
# h hh # V T h h h # hT h h T #
V h T h h h h h h h h h T
h # Vh ThV h V V h h V h h h# h T
h# h V Th # V h h h h h h T V
a Vh TT #h Th h h h h hh h h h T h V
T T T T h h T # hh h T h T h V
a Vh T # T hV h hh# hh T V h T h T
T hh Th h# h h h# h V h T T
V T T V h h h# h# hhT hT h h T T
T hh # T h hhV T h T T
# h h T V h h h hh h T #
a h h h T V #T hT hh T h # #
h h Th h h T h #h# h hh # # h # #
a hh T h T T h h V hh V h # #
h T V #h T h h h T h #
hhT h # # V h V hh h # h #
hT V# #V h V hT hh h #
T hT T T #T h hhh V h # h
Va # #h # TVh # # V h# Vh hh # # h # h h
T TT V V h T h h hh V V h # h h
#a h h # h h# hh h # h h
#T # hV h h h T h h # h
h # #Vh h V h hh hh hV h #
# h h hh # hh h h
h V h h h h h h
V h V h T h h h h
V h V h h h h h h
V # h h h h h
h h h h h # T V
V Vh h h T h h h T V
hh h h # h h h T
T h h V V h T h
V h hT hV T hV h T h V
V T h# T h T h V
V T h hV V T # h T h T
V hV Vh V T h T h T
V h V h h # h V h T
h T # V T # h V h #
8 "8 4"8 aLM" 8
M M " 7 8 L"MM
"L ""W ""
g L4 /0 4" "LM
fWh " 0
g L48
fWh
g L48
T h
V V h h
h h
# h
T # V
T h h
# h
V T h T
V # h
h
6A
T cA F V
V 6 V h#
# # c # h
h h 6 h
O #
1 V
#O e T h h#
# 2 #
hT P V
h6 N h#
5A V
# V c T
h #5 F
g L48
I T h
:
7 hT #2
T V h
DAILY ASPECTARIAN
7A6
7DGV
7STh
7Th
7A.h
7h
75hh
.
7b h
79 h
7G
7b#hV
7.
75h
7 h
7Th
5D.h
76
7 T
7O h
Oh
7R9 V
7c V
7AcT
76 hh
S7h
7T
7RO
5bVh
7T
T
7.#
D.h#
7bhh
75T
79h
7GV
5Dbh
a59h
7S6h
7#h
6c#hT
7O
7 h
7RhT
5Gh#
7S.
7OV
7RGhh
V R
79 hV
76
7D9#hh
7c#h
Oh#
7Vh
7.T
7DO V
7b T
79
7G
T 75 h
a9 hV
7Schh
7OT V
7 h
#
7h
# 7Rb V
7D h
7R5Vh
76 V
7Dc h
V
7c#
7
7R
7. T
7D6
7b
79 hV
7G
cSOV
75 h
7D.T
ce T
6R5
7Dh #
7Dbh
7O h
7D5
h7 V
7 #
D7 h
7R9 h
cV
R.T T
7G
76h
7RO T
7
7c hV
7.
Db V
R7 hT
7b
79
7GV V
7R6
Rb
75 T
cDT
7O
7R V
c.h #
a7R. h
7
7SGV
7V h
76#
7 h
6 T
7.
7c
D5 h
7b V
79 T
7GVhT
cb #
75
c9 V V
cG h
7O
7
a6Rc h
7Rb h
76 V #
7Rc V
7
7R5 V
7G
7
7D5
7. h
6Rb V
D7
7R V
7b h
79
7AG
7D T hV
7Db # h
7c #
6 h h
7D. h
75 # hh
b9 h
7O #
V7D6 h
76 V
7S9 V
7 V
SG V
7 h#
7D T
7SO
T h h
7
D h
7R6 T
7 . V #
7 9 T #
7 b T V
7 G T
7Dc #
7 c hT
R7 T T
7 5
#7 O
7S
b G T
7DO V #
7 6 V
7R. h
7SG h h
7
7D9 # h
7 9 #
Db h
7
7 V
a7 O
7 . h
7A9 hh
7 G h
7 b
5 O #
h7 c h
7 c
. 9 T
7AO # T
7 5 h
7 6 h
.AG T
7Sb T
7 h T
7 h
5R T
a7Rc
h #
7 hT
. b
7A h#
7S5
7 9 hT
7 G
7 b h
7 .
7 6
7S T
6 5 V #
7 .
7 h
7 c T #
7 b T T
7 O #
1
7
7 6 h
7 5
7S9 T
c O h
7 5
7DG
7
T
6
7SO h T
7 T
7
7S6 T
cS V
7 9
7 G
7Ab h
7 .
6 c V
9 G h
7 O V
7S hV
7 6 h #
7 c
S7
7A5
7RG V
7S. #
V7A h #
a5SG hh
7 T
O T
7
7 G
D. V
7 9 #
7 b
T7 .
AG V V
9 T #
cSG h T
D6
7 O
b #
#7A6 h h
a6D. h
7Sb
7 c V
7 5 T h
7
7DG #
7 5 V
Rc h
7 #
c 5 T
7 T
R5
7 G h h
7 9 h V
cR. h #
7 b
.
7 b #
5R.
7A. #
7S5 h
A7 T
7Sc
cDO
7 6 h
7S h#
7 .
h 7
7 O V
7 6 h
7R9
7 5 #
7 c
7
7
7RO
7
7 G h
7 9 h
7S6 h
7 b

--- PAGE 223 ---

            
 
        
     
      
       
       
   
 
        

      
      
       
       
  


  














 

 
 


 

 


 

 

 

 

 

 


 


 

 


 

 

 


 



 

 



   

 
       
 
       
      
       
       
       
   
 
       
 
       
       
       
       
  
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 224 ---
August 2026 LONGITUDE
Day   Sid.Time 12 hour  Mean       True 1st of Month7 7 6c5 .O b9G
4M J J J a0 8 g
V E
0Ha g
V TJ
F h J
TN EV
LM TE
g C
hTE
V VE
VET
V #E
hET
V E
E
TE
V VE
h h#E
V h E
# h#E
V T hEh
V hE
d
E
V V E
T h E
V T TE
T E
V T #E
T E
h# #1T# VFhT F V hFVEV E E eh E h E #E V1 TET EV h E# hhEV E hE
a h # # h E hE h E h ET EV V h Eh T Eh Eh h E h E E# h E
hV h h # h h hE EV E V hTE Eh V E# T E E h Eh h E Eh hTET
a hh# h h T h TE Eh E T h E h E V VE T TE EV h Eh hVE E hVE
h VT # hh V h E Eh hE # hE ET T h E T hE# hET h Eh h#E E h Eh
V h# TT Th h hE# E Eh E V E T E# # h Eh ET h E h E# E h EV
T hh# V hT V h TEV E V h Eh h2 Eh T hVEh T E # TE #EV h ET E hE h E
# hVh h T V h E E T TE E T VE # VE # hE TE h E E h E hhE#
a hh V VV h h E E# # VE E # VE # E # E# VE h E E h#EV E
h # T V T h #E hE h1 E# E hVEh h ET # TEh E# h Eh VE hTEV #E
a T # h # 1h# h E Eh hTEV E E E hE E h hEV #Eh hVEV VET
1 hh V # h ET #Eh E hE h EV VE E ET h hE E h E E
# h TV h he h #E TE E V h E h E h h#E VE hEh h E# hE h E Eh
#ehV h h E TEV T EV T hTE E h hE ET #E h E E h E ET
# h h E #Eh E # h E E h E h h E# VE h #ET ET h E E
V a TT h 2 h 2Th# h hEh #EV hE h E h E E h E E h #E Eh h E hE
T hT # V h h hE# E hE E E VE h Eh E h TE VE E #E#
#a h hV Ph TP h h hEV ET hEh h VEh E TE# h E hE h VET TE #ET TE
T V h V h E hEh T hEh E h ET E h E TE h E #EV TE VE
h T hh N VE hE h E TET hE# E h#E EV h Eh E# VE E
Th T # TN h h E hEh h E E# V E# h EV E E h E hE# Eh ET
hV # V V E E h E TE V #E# Eh E hEV h E E E# E
a h hh T T VET E hEh E T TEV E TE h#Eh h E E# E E
hh he hV EV hEh T h EV V E # VE hVEV hhEh h E h E E# E hEh
a hV hh h hE hE h ET T TE# # E TET E# h EV h hE EV E# #E#
V Th T T V V# TE hE ehE # hE ET #E# ET ET h Eh E #E TEV
T h V V V Eh hEV h Eh h E h E h ET #E VE# h TE# VE TE VE
# V h FV #F T hE hET hhE E h hET hEV E ET h VEV TEh ET E
# V Th TV TET hE V TE# h E Eh E h Eh hEV h E TEV E E
h a V # T hh E E # EV Eh hTE V Eh VET TE h E #E E E
V TeT h # V E E he#E 2 Eh E V E 1 E E h EV #E# E E#
DECLINATION and LATITUDE
Day 12h Day7 7 6c5 .O b 9 G
C d LM
"0 "0 "0 "0 "0 "0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
" 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
#h # h # h hh h hV # # Vh h #
a T h hh hhV hhV T V # V h #
T T T V h h# # h V hhT # h T
a TT h h hT hh# h # h h T
Th h h T h T hT h h h h h # V h V
V V h# h h h h hV h# hh hV # h V
T V # V Vhh h h# hV h hh h# T # h h
# V Th h T hT h h h V h h V # V h
a #hV V T h hh h # h # h
h T Th h h hV hh h h h # h h
a h h hV T hV hT h h V h # V h h
h VVh h# h h h # h# # h h
h h h h h h h h hT # h h h
T hV T hh Vh V hV h # V h h
hV # h # hT h # h h #
Va # T h T # h# T h# h # h h h T V
T h # # h V h V h # hV h h V V
#a h V # # T # hh # h T # h h h V
h h h Th# # V h h h T h h V
h h # V V V h V h h h T h h V
h V T Vh T T# h h h T h T
h T # #hT T h # h h h T # h T
a h TV h T T # T T h h # T h h T
h V h V h# # h V h T h V T h h# T
a h V T V hT hV # h T # h hT #
V h h# hh #hV V # h T h T h hV #
T hh# h h h h V h hh V h h# h h h T h h #
# T h# h T # hT # h# h # T T h h #
h h h V h h V T h h #
ha h T # h# h h h T h h hh
# TT h# h # V h h T T h
hh h h h h h T
V Vh h hh h h h T
h h h h h V T
V # h h h h h # #
V h h h h h V #
V h h h h h #
h hV h h h h #
T # T # h V h #
V h # T V # h h #
h h V h h h
V h h # T h# h h
V T h h # h h
V T # h hT h h
h h hh h h h V h h h
8 "8 4"8 aLM" 8
M M " 7 8 L"MM
"L ""W ""
g L4 /0 4" "LM
fWh " 0
g L48
fWh
g L48
hT h
T # V
# # hV
h V #T
# h
h h
h # T
# h V h
h V # hT
T # T h
T h
cA h #
# 5 T
V V6 T V h
#5 T T
h T O 1 #
T # e h
b 2
T P T T
h T N h #
h hh
V c h
V h c F T h
# V 5 h
g L48
I V h
: T # h1h
hVT h h #J
7 h T TPh#
# h F
3 # hE h
DAILY ASPECTARIAN
7.
7
5G
6Rb
7OV
7R#
7O
7RGhh
a76hh
7ch
7S.VV
79
75
S7#
7Ac
7D9
7
7DcTh
7
7DOh
7G
79
7bT
chh
7.h
7TV
h
7O
R
a7RbhV
7Dh
76#
75#
7
7c
cD9 h
7 h#
D7T
7G
79 #
7b T
7D.V#
7.V
7R5 T
V 7D6hh#
7RhV
7
7Sc
7Db
7Oh
7D
7R9 h
c9
7GTT
7D5#h
c2
76 V
T 75 h
7
O
7RO
7cV
7TV
7G
79 h#
7b
c
7.h
# 7R6
7OV
7#
7R#
65
7SG
6#h
7R.
75 #
a7
76V
7 h
R7h
7c
7G V
79
7bV
61 V
5#h
7.
h6 T
7O T
7
7RbV h
cG# h
cA9 h
7D5 hV
a7G
7T
5 #
75# h
7hh
7D h
76
V
7AG h
79
7cV #
7bT
7DbT
S9#
7D6
7.hh
6AG
69 h
cb T
7D.Vh
7O# h
7R h#
7R5h #
5
cO V
7S9Vh
7T #
7Rc h
6bh
D7 #
7D# #
7SO #
h h
7h h
7
75
6cV
7GV
79T
7b
7c T
76
7. h
C h
7O h
7c h
7S
7DOV
7SG# h
h h
7h
7D9 #
7R6 #
7R. #
79V h
6.
7 T
7V
7OT V
75 #
7G
7A9
7Dc #
V7 b h h
a R7
7 c T
7 . h
7 6
7AO V
6D.
T5 G V
7Sb
7
5 9
7 h V
7
6 O #
c . V T
7A V
#7
a7 G h
7 9
7 6 V
7 5 V
7 b # V
7 . #
7 . #
7 c h
7 O V
7 b
6R #
7S T V
7 6 # h#
7S9 h
7 h
7S5
5 b T h
7DG T #
7 5
6S9
h 7 T
h
7Rc #
7SO T h
7 h h
7
7 G V hh
7 9 V
7Ab
7 5 h
6R5 hT
7 . T T
cAO
7 O h
7 c h
7S V h
D T #
7RG h
SO
7 6 #
7S. h
G
7 h
h
7 V
e h
a7 G V
7A
7 9
9 T
7 b #
7A5 hV
7S6 h #
7 . h#
7 O
S7
7 c V
7Sb h
6SO
7 5 h
a7DG
7 6 #
7
7 h
6 e h
7
7 G V
7 9 V
d # hh
7 #
6 # #
7 b
7 b h h
V7 5 h
7A.
7 O
5 G h
7 .
G h
7R9
7 c h
T7S h h
9 h
c
6D
6 G V
6 9 #
7S5 h h
7RO T h
6 T h
7 T
# #
7 6 h
7 h
6Rc h#
7Dc #
#7 G
7 9
7
A7 h
7Sc V
7A6
7 T
7 b h
6 T
6 b T V
b T #
7 5 V
6 c T
7 . h
7 O h
cSb
b h
7R h
Rc h
7 O
7RG
V V
7 c h
7 9 V
7D9 T T
7S.
h7 h
a7DO #
7 G h
7 9
7 b
7
7
7 6 T
7 5 h
D7 h
7 . V
7 O
7D6
c T h
7D V
7Rb V
7 c V V
D6 #
7Ac #
S7 h
. O #

--- PAGE 225 ---

            



 

 





            
    
  



  
   




     

 

 


     


   



 


 

   

 
        
   
        
             
             
           
 
        
    
         
             
             
       
 
       
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
       
      
   
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
       
    
       
       
       
      
 
       
     
       
       
       
   

--- PAGE 226 ---
September 2026LONGITUDE
Day   Sid.Time 12 hour  Mean       True 1st of Month7 7 6c5 .O b9G
4M J J J a0 8 g
V # E
0Ha g
V TJ
F h J
TN ET
LM E
g C
E
V h ET
h hEh
V hEV
# h E
V V VE#
V EV
V V h EV
TE#
V hE
E
V VE
d
T E
V T E
V #E
V V h ET
E
V EV
a h #e T #E #E e Eh 2 hE EV V Eh 1 Eh hE# h E E hEh hET
V h V hVV Eh TEh E TE# h EV T E EV TE h ET E# #E EV
# h h h# h hVT E# VE V EV E E T EV hTE E h #E hE TEh #EV
T T hhT h#EV ET # ET hE TE T ET EV hE h VEV hEV E TE
V# T # T hE E# h h E V E E # ET E VE# h Eh Eh Eh VE
Va hh VhV # T# hE VE E V E V E# # EV E E h E E E E
T h T T hV # E TE #E T E# T hE # E VE# E h EV E hE E
#a h## 1 1 h # E #EV ET # Eh T TE# Eh h E E h E EV E E
V hh # # T # ET E T hTET hVE # E EV E EV h #E ET TE# EV
h V T h# e e hT # EV ET # hE VEV h E Eh EV hTET h VE E# VE ET
hh# # T# V V T # VE E h2 E hP E# ET h E E# h EV h E E# EV hET
h h h2hh V2Vh # E TE E# h E h VE# h hE TE EV h E E# Eh E#
a #h h V Vh # hEh E E hE# h ET h E V h E E h hE ET E Eh
T h V PTh # VE# ET hEV VE hEV h#E V E E h h#E EV E# #E
a hT Phh # ET #E T hTE hE hTE TEh V E# TE h hVE E #E TE
V h hV h T Th # hE E # E Eh E EV V ET E# h h E E VEV VE
T T h#hV NhT N # TE EV h E E# hEV h Eh V TE #E h h E hE# E ET
# T hV# h# Th # E E E VE TE E T h E E h hhE hE E Eh
h V h T # Eh hET VE E E hE T hE ET #Eh hE EV E
ha T T h# T # TE# E #E E h ET #E T EV E E# ET hEh E
# h h T T # EV E# V E TE E VE T E hE# E E h#E E#
a hhh hh hh # E E T E V E V E E T EV VE E #EV hVET E
hhTV # h#E VE #E V E V TE# E # hTEh E# #E #Eh h Eh E
h h2#T # F # # hE VE# h VEh V E# T ET h#ET # #E hTE VEV TE h E hE
h T FhT T # hE VE E# T E # h E E # EV h ET E VET h ET hE
V h V T h T #ET E #EV T hE # Eh E # hET #Eh E# VEh hhEh h E#
Ta h T hT h T E hE E T Eh hE ET # E# E E E #E h E
# hTh Th # T E E V VE T TE# E# VE h E #E# VE E VET h#ET
a h hV V TV T E ET T E # h#E h1 E E E# E E E Eh h#E
h h h V2 h #hh V # TVEh Eh 2 hEV #P TEh 1hVE E 1 ET E E E E hTE#
DECLINATION and LATITUDE
Day 12h Day7 7 6c5 .O b 9 G
C d LM
"0 "0 " 0 "0 "0 "0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
" 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
a # V # h # h V h h T h T
T V T # h T h T T h h V
TT V V T # h # h T hV h
T V T V h# h h T h h h
V #h # h hT T V h h V h h V h h
Va V T V Vh h h h h h T h V V h h h
T Vh# # hT h T h # h T V h # h
#a V T # # V h # h # h V h V h
VV h h T h h V h
h h h h T h h h h h h V h
# # h h hV h Vhh h h h# V # h
T hh h V V h V h h V h h
a #T T hV h V T h T h h V h #
V V h Th h T h T h h V # h V
a hV h T V h T h # h h V h
V h# hhT Th h T h V h h V h
T h Vhh V Vh h hhh T# # h T Vh h hV V T h
# T Th h #h hhT #V V hV h # hh h h V h
#h T T h # h h h h V h h T
ha h ThT h V V h # h h h h V hT h
hT T V V T hh h # h h h V V h h
a h # V T # h# h VhV h h h V hh h
hhh T V # h V # h h h T h h
h hh# # h # Vh h h h h #
h T V# h V hh hhh VT h hV h V h h V
V h h h h h# h# h V h V hV h T h
Ta Vh hT hV h Vh h T hT h h
# T h h h h VV hV h # h# h h h
a h T# h # h h h V hVh h h h T T h V h
h hV T V # h V# h h Vh h h h h V hT
h hV h h h h #
V # h hV h h h hT #
h hV h h h h #
V h hV h h h hh V #
V h hV h h h h T #
V h h h h h hT # #
T h# h h h h h h
V T h V h T h h h h
V h h h h hh h h h h h
V # V V h h # h h h# h h
T Vh h Vh h hT h h
V h h h hV h
8 "8 4"8 aLM" 8
M M " 7 8 L"MM
"L ""W ""
g L4 /0 4" "LM
fWh " 0
g L48
fWh
g L48
V
V h # hV V h V#
# h
V h
V
# # h # h
h h h
h
V h
h V h h
#cA # h
h #6 #
# c
T c 1 T V
# c e V
5 2
#5 P V
V N V V
# h V
T V
# 6 F
V # 5 V h
# 6A #
T. h T T
g L48
I T
: # #e V
7 # h N T
V V h T
DAILY ASPECTARIAN
7S6
a7#V
5Ohhh
6O h
65
7G h
6.
79
7D. V
5.T
7bT
7h
7h
7OT
7.#h
75#
7Db
76h#
6S
7R9Vh
7D h
7D5 #
7R h
7G
7c
7RO
7R5
7
7GT
79TV
7b #
7V
6SG
7Sc
T
7T
7Oh
7.#
7R
75
7SGh
76
7c#
7R. T
7
7GhT
79h
O h
V 7bhh
a7hh
7O
7h
7.
75hT
T 7Rb
76Th
7G
7c
7D5 h
7D
.Thh
R7Thh
7T
7AG
79
S V
6DO
# 7Db
a7b
5D hh
7#
7R6 V
7O hV
7.# #
7hhT
7D.
75
7S9 #
7c
7Rh
7SOV V
76V
7D# V
7c#
V
7hh
h7G
79 h
7R5
7b
cP #h#
7
62 V
cAT V
7O#h#
b ##
6
D7
6c
7S
7Rc h
7. #
SG
7SG
7 #
6R.
7DO V
75
6D9
7D9
76 T
7D6 T
79 T
69 T
7h
7Oh
7R. T
7c
76
7G
7A9
7V V
7bhh
c.
6GVhh
5RbV
6A9V
7
7AO h
7. h
a7 #
7Sb
7
75 #
6b
7A T hh
7. h h#
7c
7G #
79 hh
7Dc V
7b T
76
5
R7 h h
6O
7 #
a7O T h
6 h T
7b h T
7. T
7S9 T
75 #
cG # V
c9 # T
7 T
V9G #
75
7DG h
7
7R6 h
7S h
DO h
7SO hT
7 V #
7 9 h
7 G
T7 c h
7Ab
7S5 #
7 6 V
7 T
7 O T #
7S h
#
7 . h
7RG
7Rc T
6
6AO h h
O T
7 5 T V
h
7 h
7
7S.
7 9
7 G #
7 c
7 b V
h7 O V h
a7A T
7 6
c b h
7 . V #
7Sb V
7A5 #
7DG h V
7
7
7 V
6 .
7 9
7 5 V
7 G V
7 b
a7 b
7 c
7Dc
7 O T #
9
7 h
.S9 h
S7
2 h hV
7R9 h
7A.
D9 #
7 . V #
7 6 #
6Sb # V
7RO
7 5
7S h
7
7
7
7 9 h#
7 G
7D6
7 b T
7S6 V
7 c V T
7 O
7S5 hV
7 V
7R V #
7RG h
7 .
7 O V
7Sc h
D7 h V
7 6
V7D9 h T
A9 T
7 9 #
G V
7 V h
7 5 #
7DO h
7 h
7 9
7 G V h
A7 V h
7S. T
7 b h
R.
T7 c h h#
a7 O T
5 hh
7 h
7 . T
7 6 h
7D
6 hT
7Rb
#5 1 h
5Db #
7A6
O
7
7D. #
7 5
b V
7 9
7 G h h
7 b h h
a 7 h
7Ac T
7 O h V
7 c
7D5
7Db #
7 T V
7R9 h
7 . T
h6A V
c 5 #
7D h
S7 h
7 G V V
6 P V
7RO V
7 V T
7 6 # h
7R
7 5 h h#
7 9 V
7 G

--- PAGE 227 ---

            




 

 

 

 

 




 

 


 

 


 


 

   


 
   


 

 

   

 



 

 


   


 
        

      
      
       
       
  
 
        
  
      
       
       
       
 
       
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
       
 
       
       
       
       
  
 
       
   
       
       
       
      

--- PAGE 228 ---
October 2026 LONGITUDE
Day   Sid.Time 12 hour  Mean       True 1st of Month7 7 6c5 .O b9G
4M J J J a0 8 g
V E
0Ha g
V TJ
F h J
TN E#
LM E#
g C
Eh
V #E
hEV
V h EV
TE
V # VE
T h E
V E
V V EV
T E#
V # E
hE
V h E
TET
d
h E
V #E#
h EV
V E#
T #E
V V VE
E
h# T2hT h T E# hE hP hET #P E 1 E V h E 1 E ET E EV ET hTE
h # V # h # T EV hET E # TE VE V E VE hEh VE# hE hE hVE
hV #T T h T VE hEh TE # E Eh V VE VE# E E E #E hVEV
a hh# h Th V Thh T E hE E # #E EV V E h hTE hEV ET #E VE# hVE
h VV h1 T T1 V T hE hE #Eh # VE hhE T hTET h TE# E Eh TE E h E
Va h# #h T VE hVE T h E # hE EV T E# h #E E VE VEh E h EV
T h# # hV e h T E# hVE # ET # E h#E T TET h #E hVE ET ET E h E
# hV V e#T # T hEV hVE E # h E Eh T E h #E h ET Eh E hE h E
h VT 2hV T TE hE h hE T E V TE # hVE# h #EV h TEh h#E E #EV h E
h # V # #2 Vh T E # #E VE T VE V hE # Eh h#EV h E h EV hET TEh h ET
a # T T # h T Eh # hE# hEh T E T ET # Eh #E h TEV h E E E h E
# h# P hP T T hTE # Eh E T hhEh T #E # #E# #E h Eh hhE TE# E# h E
a VT hh T h#V h T hET # E hEh V #E # ET h E TE h #E # TE VE E h E
h h h N # T hE # E E# V E# h Eh EV TE h ET # EV ET hET h E
h NVV T V V #E # E V #E Eh #E #EV VE h E # E E E h E
V #hT # V E # h#E T TET E h E E hVE h EV # E E TEV h E
T h # VT V Eh # hE # h E E h E E E h hEh # VE h E# VEh h E
# a Vhh T T V V #E# #hE # E hE# VE# h hVE E h E # E h#E E h E
T TT h hhV V EV # hE E #E E h #E E h E # hET hVE Eh h E
ha V Th # T VV V E # hE# E# E ET h E E h hVEV # TE h EV E h E
Th T Vh V# hh V E #hEV h #E# E E h E E h h E # E h E# hE h E
hV # V VFhh F V VE # hE h #E h E# VEh h EV E# TE # E hhE #EV h EV
h Vhh # V# T V E # hE h E TE TE h E h#E EV # E Eh TE h E#
h hP ## h# V ET T VE# h #E h hE# EV E VE# E # VET TE ET h Eh
a V V V h hThh V VEV T E# h VE# h Eh h E E Eh E # E E E h E
V T h T V V E T hET h VE 2 TE EV E E hE # E E E h E
Ta h hhh V hE T hE h #E h E V h E# E E VE# # #E E EV h E#
# V V # V TEh T E h hhE # ET V E ET E E# # E E hE hVE
hh h V E# T hE E T E T h E# h E# VE #E# # E# TEh h#E hVE
h V # # h hT V hET T hE # TE T TEV T VE EV h E E # hEh E hTEV hVE
T TP h h VhTE V#EV TP E V2 E #1hTEh hE 1 Eh Eh # hTE ET hVE hTE
DECLINATION and LATITUDE
Day 12h Day7 7 6c5 .O b 9 G
C d LM
"0 "0 "0 "0 "0 "0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
" 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
hT h ThV h# T h hV h h h h V h
h TT T h Th hh h h T h V h
T Th # h T h h h # h V h
a V h h h hV T# hV h h h V
# h V T h# h h # h V T
Va h T # Vh V h # T h hV h T h T V
T hT hh hV V # T# hh hT V h Vh h T
# # Vhh h Thh T T T h# T h h# h T
V hT T T T T T h # hV h h T h
h V V# T V T T h h h h T #
a VT V h V ## T hV T h h T V
T TV h # hVh T T V h #
a T Vh h V h T # h #
#h h hV V hh h T h #
#V Th # T h h Th h V # h #
V # T T T# hT h TT #V T V # h # #
T T h Vh h h hh T # # # # h V
#a # h hT h T# #h h
# h h # T # h # V h
ha hV # V h T V ThV # h
hT hV h T h #T V #V h
h # h h T h # V V #h# V # # h #
h h h# hV # V TVh T V h h V
V h h T V T V h h
a h # T hh V Th V T T # h h
V ## h h ThT V T h # h h
Ta hV hT h T V TT h hV V h h h
# h h Vh h h V# T T T h h #
TT T # T h T
h T # T h h Th T h# h
h VV h # h h hV V hV h
T h h h h h h h # #
V h h h h h h # T
T h h h h h h V # T
V h h h h h h # T
hT h h h h h h # T
V h h h h # h h h T T
h V h h# h V h h h # T V
h # h h h h
V h # h h h
h hV T h h h h h
V V T T T h h h h
T h V V # h h h h
V # V V h hV h h h h
h h # h hh h h
8 "8 4"8 aLM" 8
M M " 7 8 L"MM
"L ""W ""
g L4 /0 4" "LM
fWh " 0
g L48
fWh
g L48
h V# T
T h
# h
hV
V T
V T h V
# h
h T h
T h h
# # hT V h
T T #
.
hO 1
V h . e T
T # #6 2 #
h h#. P
# T. N h
T V #
# V
# F V
6
h cA V
T . # h
c h hT
g L48
I V h
: h T2
7 # V #
V V
DAILY ASPECTARIAN
7b
7ThT
7cTV
7Oh
cV
7RT
7h
7S6
7R5
cb
7SG
7.
7Sc#
65
69V
7#V
6Gh
59
79hh
75hV
7Gh
76T
7R.h
7b
c TT
7chT
5AGhh
7V
7Oh
7h
a7.VhT
7RbV#
AO h
6.hh
7GVT
6bT
7D
7 V
79 #
7AG
75Vh
7cV
7DbT
7b#T
76
7D5
7c
7O#
7h
V 7
a7S9
76V
7.h
7D.h
7SOhhV
T 6ch
R7h
7
7Dh
79TT
7RT
7G#
5bh
7b
75 T
7cTh
76# #
7O
# 7h
7S
7 V
7h
7SGh h
7DO
7.
7R5V
7Rc
79 V
7D9
7R6hhT
7O
7V T
6O# T
7A9 T
7G V
7bT
7R. V
75h T
7c h
hD7h
7AO
76
7
7#hh
7
7Sb h
c5
7. h#
7. hT
a7A
cb T
79h
7G h
7b
hh
7c #
75V
7D6Th
75h V
7O
7Dc# #
76# h
7b #
7S9h
a7
7 #
7.# T
7 h
7DG
65 #
Sb h
7SOV
7
79 V
7GTh
7S
7Ab h
7c
R7 V
75
7O V
7S #
.#
76h T
7RG
7V h
7RcT
7.h
7 T
VG
7S5
6S9
5O#
cb# h
7h
6DcV T
79T
7R6# h
7G
7c
7b V
T7S.
7O
75
#76 h#
aRb
7Sb T
7A
7 . h
V h
7 V
7DG T #
7 # T
7 h
7 9 V T
7 G T h
7 c #
7 b #
7 b
7D6 h
7Dc h
7 O
h7A5 V
a7 5
c G V T
7R9 h#
7 6 T
7 #
7 .
7A.
7RO h
7 #
#
7
7
c 9 h
D7
7 c V
7 9 T h
7 G # T
7 b h#
A #
7S
7 O T
T
7R hh
7 5 T
S7
7Sc #
7RG
7 6
7
7 O T
G V
7 . T
7D9 # V
P
7 9 #
7DO
7 T h
7S5 # #
7 h
7 c
7 9
7 G
h
c 5 V
c
7 b
7S6 V #
6 T
7S. h V
7 O hT
7 5 hV
7D #
a7Rb V
7 6 #
c 2
7
7
7 . #
9 V
7D. T
7 h h
7Ac h
V7 9 #
A7
7 G V
7 c
7 b T
7D5 T
G
7 O #
7 6 #
T7Db h h
a7 5
7R9 h
7A6
7 h
7 .
7 G h
7D V hT
7RO V
7
7 c
#7 9
b h
7 G V hT
cA T V
7 b #
7 h
7R V
7 O V
7Sc h
7R V
5S9
7 5 hT
7SG V V
7 6 # #
S7
7
7 . V #
7 c
7 hV
h7 9 T
7R5 V
7 G T
7S6 T #
7 b V
7 T
7R. T T
6 5 T
7 O T T
. V
7 6 T h
7 5 #
7Rb h
6S9 #
7
7 . # #
7D #
.SO
7 G h
7 c h

--- PAGE 229 ---

            
   
  
                   
            


               
               
               
       



 




 

 


 

   

   


 


 
 

   

 

   



 

 



 

 

   

 

 

 
       
  
   
                
             
 
 
               
              
              
      
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 


--- PAGE 230 ---
November 2026LONGITUDE
Day   Sid.Time 12 hour  Mean       True 1st of Month7 7 6c5 .O b9G
4M J J J a0 8 g
V E
0Ha g
V TJ
F #J
TN E#
LM VE
g C
V EV
V VE
EV
V E
E
V E#
Eh
V Eh
E
V V Eh
T #E
V hE
d
hEh
V E
hE
V VE
E
V E
a #P T T 1 VhE VVE VP ET V2 E# #1 TE #E 1 E TE # h E hEV h Eh hTET
h# 1T # V hE VVEh hE VEh hTE VE VEV E # h ET #E h E# h#E
a h h # h# e# #Eh VVE ET #E TE ET ET h E# T Eh VE h EV h#ET
h #e E# V E# #Eh E h hTEh hE# hEV hVE T VE E h E h E
V# # h EV V E ET E h VEV TET TE h EV T EV EV hhE h E#
V hh hh 2h 2 V #E V #E h Eh hE h E h E E # E T hE E Eh hE
T h T # E V hE hE E E hE hhEV # E# T #E TEh TE hE
#a h## hP VP E V E # h EV VE h E# VEh hVE # E T EV ET VE# EV
V h V #E V VE T hTEh EV E E E # E T Eh E ET E
ha V T T V N T ET V hEh V E EV hhE# VE E # VE T hE hEh ET E
hT # VV TN T hhV E TE# E# h E Eh E Eh # Eh T TE# TEV EV EV
VT hhT # E Eh TE# VE# VE E hET # hE T E E EV E
# h V V T VE E h E E EV E VE # TE T ET E# ET E
T T V T Eh VEV h EV E# E ET ET # E T hE hE hET VEh
a V TT V E# E# ET Eh E E VE # EV T TET hTE E# VE#
V hh # T hV h VET hE E VE VE #EV Eh # Eh T E h E #E TET
Ta T # hh h E h#E# E h E V E hE VE # VE T E# h E #E #E
# # h F T TF hE h#E# V TE hE V E E# V h ET # E T hE hhE TE E
h V h h hTE h#E T E hE T h E E V hVE # ET T #Eh #Eh VE hE
h VhV T h V T hT h Eh hET # Eh E T E E V hEV # E T ET E ET E
hhh # h h hT V hhE# hhE ET #E T VE# VE V E# # TE T E Eh E E
a h # # hhV TEV E h EV h Eh # E VE V #E # E T E hE E E
hTV hN # #T T E E Eh E # TE VE V E# # E T h#E TE E E
a h hh h hT E ET E EV E# E V VE # E T hVET E E E
h# # h #E E TE hTE VE Eh V hEh # h ET T h E E E VE
V V # h h E hE h E E# hehhE EV V E # h#Eh T h E hE ET TEV
T # T h ET hhE# V E #E h E E V VE # hVE T hhE TE E #ET
# T h h1 h #E E T TE V VE h TEV ET V E # h Eh V #E E hEV E
a V T1V E E Eh V E# hE# TE V E # h ET V VE E# hE E
h TNV V # E E hP VE T2 TE e EV Eh V1 E # h E V E hE ET E
DECLINATION and LATITUDE
Day 12h Day7 7 6c5 .O b 9 G
C d LM
"0 "0 " 0 "0 "0 "0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
" 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
a hT h h # # h VV V V h h
# V h T h V T V# T # h h
a Vh V hh h V Vh h V h h h
# T h T VT h h# V h h V T h h
T h# h hV V hT h h h#
V hT T h hhV T Vh h h hV h
T V hh h# hT T h h h
#a Vh V h ## hV h hT V h h h
V# hT h V T T h h h
ha Th hh Vh h T T # h V h h h
T VV T T h V hV h h
T# TV T T T h h# V h h h h h Vh
T T# h V T hh h# h h h
# h Vh V hV hV h h T h h #
a #V h h h V T h h T
V # T # hh V # V h h V
Ta #V h hV # hVh T T h h #
# h h h T # hT T h h #
T V h hh T h h #
h # h h h h V h h V h #
TT h h hh hT h hV h V h T
a hh # # Vh h h hh h # h V h T
h# # # h V V h hV hh T h V h T
a hh hh hT h h h# h h V h V h T
h VT T # V h# h # h h h T h h T
V h T T # h h h h T h h V
T h VT V T # h h T h V
# V h h h T h h T h V
a V T V T h h V V h # h V
h V h V# h h T h # h
h h h# h h h h # T V
V h h h h# h h h h h V V
h h hT h h h h V
V h h h hT h h h h V
h h hT h T h h h V V
V h h hV h h h h T
hV h h h # h hh h h
V h h h V V h h h h
h V h V h h h h
V hh # h h h h h
T h h h h h h #
V V V h # V h h h #
8 "8 4"8 aLM" 8
M M " 7 8 L"MM
"L ""W ""
g L4 /0 4" "LM
fWh " 0
g L48
fWh
g L48
h h
h
h h hh
T
T h V #
T h
h h
hh
h
V V T
h h
h c 1
h c e #
V 6 2
T . P T
V. N h # T
h. h #
# Tc
T T5A F T
h T h
T h5 h
h h5
V . V h
# c 1 #
h h c e h
g L48
I h h 1 V
: T h VP
7 T h#
h
DAILY ASPECTARIAN
7h
a79T
7AG h
Dc
7b T
7Db
OVh
7Ohh
7hh
hh
76V
76VT
7D5 #
7S9
75 h
c. V
7Thh
7 V
7D.h
7c T
7SO
7.
7ch
a h
7
7D
79 h
7G h
7bVT
65 h
7R T
7Oh
7Rch
7
76V
7ST
c.h
6
7SGTh
75
D6h
7DOhh
7 T
79 V
7c h
7.h
7D9V
7R6TV
7OhV
7h
R7h
7A9#
7Ghh
7b V
V 7R5 #
7AOT
76#
7R.h
5 h
7Th#
T 7hT
7Sb V
6O
75Th
7DcThT
7
6.h h
7ch
7.
7D6
7. h
7A# T
75
# 79
aD7 h
7G V
7bTh
76 h
7O
c
7b h
7Th
7S9ThT
S9T h
75#
7c
7
7SOh V
7DGh
7. V
h7 hV
a7 h
c5V
79
7G T
7AbTh
76hh
7Rch h
7S V
7O
5 hV
7S
5SOh
7RGh #
7 h
7R6h
7cV
7T
75# V
7. h
7
c#
79h
7G h
7b
76V
R7#
7O
6
7S5V
7S.#hT
c h
7Sb
7 V
7T V
7c# T
7Ah
7DG
75
7. h
a7
c V
79 hT
7G V h
7b T
7b # h
76 h
SO h h
V7O
T
5. V
D7 T hV
7R9 T
T75
a7c T
7RO # V
7 #
7.
7
7A. h
7A5 T
7 V h
7D6
7
#79 h
7Dc
7G
7b hT
. h
76 h #
7Sc h
7 O
7S
7R h
7RG #
5 h
7 O #
7S6 T h
7D9 T h
5 T h
7 c # hh
7 # T
7 9
7 .
7DO
h7 h
7 5 V
7 T
6 O #
7 9 h
7 G #
7 b V
7 O h
7 6
7S.
7S5 hT
S7 V
7 c #
c h
7D #
7Rb
7 6 T
7 V
7Ac h
a7D. h
7D5 T
7 .
7
N T
7 5 T h
7 h
7 9 h
7 G
7 b V
7 O
7A6 #
7 T
7Db h
7R9 T
6 . h
9 h h
a7RO h
7 G hh
7 T
7 c
7 . h
7 V
7 5 h h
6 5 h
7 9
7D hT
A7
7 G V h
7 b T h#
7 O h
7R
7Sc
b
7R V
7 6
7SG V
G T
Ab
5 e #
V7 h
7 c
7 .
7 V h
7 5
7S6 h
7 9
7 G V
7 b V
7 # h
7 O
T5D. hT
6S9
7R. T
7D h
7R5
7 6
7Rb V
S7 T
#7
7 G V
7 c
7 .
7 V
c . hV
7 5 h
d T
7 9 h#
7
7AG T
7 b T
7Db h
7
cA h #
a7 O h
b G
7S9 V
7 6 V
7 6
h7SO h
7
7D. h
7D5
O V hT
5 9 V
7 . # V
7 # h
7 c h
7D V #
7 9 T hT
7 5 T V
7 b h #
7 G h T
7 c h h
S V

--- PAGE 231 ---

            
  






 

 

 


   

 


 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 


 

 


 



 

   


 

 


 
   
  
      
       
       
       
 
   
    
      
       
       
     
 
       
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
   
       
       
       
       
 
       
     
       
       
       
    

--- PAGE 232 ---
December 2026 LONGITUDE
Day   Sid.Time 12 hour  Mean       True 1st of Month7 7 6c5 .O b9G
4M J J J a0 8 g
V T E
0Ha g
V VJ
F J
TN E
LM hhE
g C
TEV
V E
E
V hTEh
EV
V E
V #E
VEV
V hTE
h E
V T h E
h E
V h#E
TE
d
Eh
V E#
Eh
V E
E#
V Eh
V E
a #NTT e hT e h Eh EV Ph EV T2 E e VEh hEV V1 TE # h E V E TE# E E
#V hhh# E# E hE # E #E VET V EV # hhE V hE E #E# E#
T h hV 2hTV #2 # ET E #E h E E E V EV T E V #EV E# #E VEh
# T #h # E Eh V TEV TEh h E TEV V E T #E V VE# hE #E TE
hh T Vh Ph VE TE# T TE hP E E E V E T TE# V E TE# TE #EV
V a hPh V E TET TEV h Eh E# VE V VEV T TE V E E TEV hEh
T hh# # # h hEh EV hN #E E# h Eh hE V TE T VET V ET E TE E
#a hTh V N# hNhT hVE# hE E TE# E# h E V Eh T VE V hE hE TE ET
h V V h # hEV Eh hhE# Eh E TET V E T VE V #E h#Eh TEh E
h # T # Vh h hhE TEh E E h E hE T hhEV T E V TEh h EV VE E
# # V h Thh V TE TEh T h E hE ET E T h E T E V E h E VE# TEh
T hh T # E ET # VE VE TE# E T h E T E V E hhE# VE# #E
a VT h # T hE E h h#ET V ET E VE T h E T VE V ET #E VE# E
h hT TET E E T h ET V EV TE# T h E T VE V E VE VE# E
a h hh T h F E E ET T hET V E h#ET T h E T VET V hE E# VE# E
V #T h# Fhh# V hh E E VE # hE V E E T hhEV T TE V #E E VE E
T hh VhV # V# #E EV V E Eh T h E E V E T TE V TET E TE VEh
# Vh V h h T Eh E T E h E T VE E V E T #EV V VEV VE TE TEV
hT T hT # T hT E# E E E T E #EV V #Eh T E V E EV TE E
h a # h hh hh #ET hTE h #EV hTE T E TE# V VET # hhE V E E TEV hhE#
#h hV V V E hEh E hhE# T E hVET V E # h E V EV hE TE h E
a VhV h h#hh h V # V# E Eh hET Eh # E h E V EV # h E V ET #E #E h Eh
VhV hh V hhh TV E ET E E # Eh h E V ET # h E# V E# E #E h ET
Vhh h V # V VEh TE T E E # TE h E V ET # h E V E E# #E hTE
VhV T V h E# Eh # TET V E # #EV h E V TE # hVEV V hE E# E h Eh
V V#h 1 1 hEV TE h E T #E # E h hVE# V E # h#E V EV ET ET hET
T a V h V hVE EV VET # E h E E V E # h E V Eh TET hE E
# VV V T eh T #ehVh h E E# EV E EV E V EV # ET V #E ET hET E
a V T h # hhE TE hVE# h E #ET #Eh V VEV # EV V TE E# E E#
h V # V # T 2 V VE #E V E hE TE EV V E # EV V TE E E# TEV
VT #h 2 T# # ET #ET # #Eh P EV e E h E V1 hE # TET V TE hEh E E
DECLINATION and LATITUDE
Day 12h Day7 7 6c5 .O b 9 G
C d LM
"0 "0 "0 "0 "0 "0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
" 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
a V # h T VT T T T h h # h #
h h TV V h h V h h h # h #
h h# Vh T V h# h h #
V # h # V h h #
h h T # h # V V h h h #
Va # # T hV h# V h V T V V h # h h #
T h hh hh h h V h # h h h #
#a V VV T h h h V # # h h h #
# Th T TV h hV h h V h # h h h #
h T hV Th# h V h# h V h V h # h h h #
VV V h h h # V V T h # h h #
h h T h h h V # T h # h h
a h# h V # hhT h # T h h # h h
Vh h hhh V T V # h h
a h h hhT T T h h h h
V # VT T # h h T h h h
T h h h V T T V V hh h h h
# #h h hT h Vh T T V hV h h h
hV T h # h h T V h h
ha V # # hh h T V V V h h h
V h V hh hT h# V # h V h h h
a V T h V h h V # h V h h h
V Th h TT h h # # V V h h h h
T T VV h T hT hh # V h h
h T V V h V h h # V h V h h V
V # hh V # h h # V V T h h T
Ta h VT hV V h hh hV # V h # h h #
# T h# h Th V h h h# # V h h #
a # h h# h hT h # V V h h h Vh #
h h h# hV h T h h h #
hT #h h h h# h h T h# h V h #
h T h hV h h h h # h
V h h h h h h h h # #
h h h h h T h h h # V
V h T h h h h h h #
h h h h h h h T
V h h h h h h h V
h h h h h h# h
# V # T h h h T
V h h h h V
h T hh V # h h h h V
V hh V h V # h h h h
h h # h h h h
V h T V h# hV T h h h
h hh h # T h h h
8 "8 4"8 aLM" 8
M M " 7 8 L"MM
"L ""W ""
g L4 /0 4" "LM
fWh " 0
g L48
fWh
g L48
V h
T # h
h T V
V T hV
h h
T h
hV
T T T
# VV
T T T h
h h
6 2 h h
. P V
T h . N T h#
hT. h h
h O V hT
.A F T
T T V
V h
T T. #
T h . hh
h c 1
T V h. e T
h c 2 h #
g L48
I V h eh
: h VN T
7 T F T
I h h 2h
DAILY ASPECTARIAN
7Oh
aC
7R#
7Vh
V
7Sh
7RcT
6SOV
7SG
6
.
7DOVh#
79V
7#h
76
7D9
7O
7
7.T
7c#T
7A9hT
75h
7b
7G
7AOh
7R6V
7T
7R.#
S#
7Dch
7
6h
7R5
7SbVh
6.Th
cP #
75 V
7
7.V
5b h
7A
7.
R7h
76hV
7c
79T
7bh
75
7G #
7O T
5Gh
7D6
V 7bTh
a7#hV
6N #
7S9
c9hV
D7
T 7SO
7 h
7DG V
7#
7.h
69hT
79# h
76 h
7c V
7Ab V
7G
6c
75 #
# 7OV
a7SThV
6Abh h
7h
7S T
6G
c hV
cb #
7h
7Rc
7RG
7 h
65
6bV
cG#
7h h
7. hT
h79V V
7b
7Gh T
7c
75
7V h
76V
7O
RGhh
O
7S.
6S V
6O T
7Sb
7 V
7S5h #
7A hh
7R6
7DG
D7#
7 hT
c5 V
7.hh
7D6T
79
7b h
9
7G
. h #
a7b
75 V
R7 h
7c hT
7O#
76 T
6S
7R9 #
Rc
V
h
7 h
7 #
7RO
7.V V
7
7A.
75h T
a7Dc T
cO
7T h
79T
7bh
7G h
c5V T
7A5T h
7S#
7Oh
7c
V7R
76h #
5R T
7RGT T
7 h
7O T
T7D9h
7Sc
79 #
7
7DOV h
7T V
7.# T
7 9 T T
7 b T
7 G T
#7 5 h
D6
6DG h
7 O
# h
7 c h
DG h
7S. #
6RG T h#
7D h
.
7Rb h
7D5 h
7 6
7 c
7
7S5 T T
7D. V
7 #
7 .
7 V
7 9
h7 b h
a7 G
6
7S6 T
7 5 V
7 O h
7Ac #
7Db # #
S7 h h
7R9 h #
5 O
7 T
7 G h
7 h #
7RO h
7 6
7 6 #
7 V T
7 . T T
h
7
7 9 hV
a7 b
7 G h
7R T
7 O
7 5 T
7R V
7 c h
7SG
7 T h
6 h
9 #
7 V T
7A6 V
7 . T h
6 . # h
c . #
7Sc hT
7 9 h
A7
7 b hh
7 G T
b #
7 O h
7 5 #
7R. V
cS9 h
7 c h
7Rb
7 6
7 #
7R5
7 V
7 G
7
7 . V h
6 #
7 6
G
7 9
V7 b
7AG
7
7Db #
7 O h T
7 5 T
6 9 #
DG
T7S9 h hT
a7S6 h
7 c h
7
S7 V
6 b T
T V
7 c #
7SO h
7D.
7 V h
7 . V h
7D5 h
#7D h
7 9 h
7 b
c
7 6
7 G
7R V h
7 h
6 G h
7 O h
7 5
7S T
7SG T
a7 T
7 c h
7DO
7 9 #
6Rc V h
7D9 T
7 O #
7
7 . h #
O
h7A9
7 b V
7 G h V
7Rc V
7 6 V h
7AO T
7 h
h
7 5 h
7R. #
6 O V
7 T
7Sb h T
7 5 h V
5 h
7
cSO h h
7 c
7 .
6 5

--- PAGE 233 ---

            
 

 





         
 







  



   

     

 

 

   


   




   


 

 

   


 

 


 
        
      
       
       
       
  

        
 
      
       
       
       
 
 
       
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
       
  
 
 
 

 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
       
       
       
       
  
 
       
  
       
       
       
       


--- PAGE 234 ---
January 2027LONGITUDE
Day   Sid.Time 12 hour  Mean       True 1st of Month7 7 6c5 .O b9G
4M J J J a0 8 g
V hVE
0Ha g
V VJ
F TJ
TN Eh
LM E
g C
V hE
V T VE
h E
V h E#
E
V E
hVE
E
V E
# hE
V hF TEV
TE
V h E
T Eh
d
V E
V T hE
# ET
V h h E
E
V E
TET
V h h 2V hP hE TE Eh P E e E # TE V1 VE # E V VET #E E E
V # hh TPhTh T# TE E hE EV #E# # EV V E# # E V VE VE E# E
a V h h E EV hTE hE h h EV # EV V #E # ET V VE EV E ET
V h N TN Eh E E V E h h E# # h EV V E# # TE V VEh E# E VE
a VT# h T TE# hVE V ET T E# h E T E V hE # E# V E E VEh #E
V Th h V ET h #E# T E # EV h #Eh T TE V hVE # EV V E h E VE# hE
T Th V V T h E h E TEV VE# h Eh T Eh V h E # E V E hTE TET E
# Th # T T h h # #E h TEh VE hN E h E T h#E# VET # #E V E hVE #E E#
T # # h V # E h E E E h E# V E E# # E V VE h E# E EV
ha TT # Eh h E E E h EV V hE VEV # E V VE h E hE TE
T hT h h h hF #E# h E V E E h ET V VEh E # TET V VE h E# E E
a T h h VF EV h E T E E h E V E# E # Eh V VET hhE E E
T h h # # hV E h E E TE h E TET hE # E V TE E E E
T T # V T T hE h ET Eh T h E h E EV EV # #Eh V TE TE# E E
TV V h h h hVE hTEh E # hVE h #E ET #E# h EV V #Eh VE EV VE#
V Thh V T h hT hE h TE TEh E h E E E# h E V #E E VET #ET
Ta TT V T h T h ET h VEV V #E h VE h h E h E hVEV h E V E E TE hEV
# T# T # h# VE h E# T E E h h E #ET hhE E V ET Eh E E
a T h # # V E h E hE# TET TE E Eh VE V hE E hhE E
h TVV h h# h hE h E E EV hE# E TE Eh V E hE h E VE
#hh h V V V TEh h VE h ET E# Eh h E hE# E V E E h E# #E
#h h # V 1h E# h E E VE E VEV Eh E V E# Eh h E hhE
#h#V hh 1Th T h#V hET h Eh V E# V E Eh E TE ET V ET #E h E h Eh
a # h VhV e#T TE h E# # h EV T ET ET E hE #E V ET TE hVE h E
#V Vh e V V E h E E hVE# h ET E E EV V ET VE h#E h E#
Va #hV Thh V h2V E h E E h Eh # E h#E hVEh TE V VE# E# h ET hTET
T # V T T2 VT hhh #Eh h ET EV E # E VE #ET E# V TE E E h EV
# ##h T #T h V T hThT E# h VET E E # VEh E# E VEV V E E EV E
# h # P P h EV hTE hET VE # E Eh E h h E V hE E E E
h #Vh h V h #E h TE T VE E T TEh E VE h hVE V EV E EV E
a # h # N # E hVET # #E N Eh Te E E 1 #E h E V Eh E TE TE
DECLINATION and LATITUDE
Day 12h Day7 7 6c5 .O b 9 G
C d LM
"0 "0 " 0 "0 "0 "0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
" 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
h T V T h V T h V h T
T #T h h T V h # T T V h V h T
a h h# T h h # T # h V h T
V V h V T h Vh h T h T hV T
a h Th T T V V h h T h T h# V
V T# V T V h T V T h T h V
T V V T hh h V T h T T h T h V
# # T T h Thh hV # T V h T V
h V T h T h T h h T # h #
ha h T h V hV TT h h h h T h h #
T h h # hT T h # h T h T h # V
a T T hT T T h h h h T V h # T
h h # hT #h V h h T V h
V V T V hV # T h# h h # h # h
h # h # V h # hV hh h
V h h T V hT h # # h h # h h h
Ta hh hhh h hh h # h # h h # h h V
# h# h T h h hT h # hT h Vh T
a hV VV T # V h V h # # h h Vh
h h T T h h V h T # h Vh
Vh V T # T # h V # h # hh
T h #h # Vh h # V T hh
## hh Vh T# T V V h h # # h T
a # h T V h hh h # h #
h V V hh T h V # h h
Va # hh T V hT # h hT h # T h
T # V V T hV h h h # T h
# # T # T hV h T h V # h V
# h TV h T hV h# # h
h T T V V T h h V h # T h
a Th Vh T h hh # # h h
h h h h h h# h #
V h h h h T h h# h V V
h h h h V h h# h V
V h h h h h h# h V
h h h h h h# h V h V
V h h h h h h# h h# T
h h h h h h# h h hV T
# # h h T h h h
V V h T h h h h
# V h V h V T h h h
V # h h hh T V h h h
T # hV T h V T h hh h h
V V h h h h T V h h h h
V h# # # h h h h h h h
8 "8 4"8 aLM" 8
M M " 7 8 L"MM
"L ""W ""
g L4 /0 4" "LM
fWh " 0
g L48
fWh
g L48
h
h h T # T # h hVVh#
h # h
# # h
T V #
T
T #
T # h
T h
h # # T
. P h T
. N h #
V . V #
# 6 #
hh.A F h T
T
h V V
# # #
h h . h
h T5 1 # V
. e # V
T Tc 2 V
# T T6 P # T
h T6 N
g L48
: T h V T #
7 h V #
1
I h T P #
DAILY ASPECTARIAN
7R5h
7A
7.
7DcT
79
7b h
6Th
7G#
6S.
S.h
7OV
75
7#V
76 #
7bh#
7S9#
7
D7
a7DG
7SOT
7c h#
7
7.
7D6
.V
R7Th
c.TT
c#h
7R6
79h#
7Ab
7S h
7Gh
7O
75T
7Sh
7 #
a76V
7#
6Sb T
7RGh
6A
V 7.
7
7cTh
h
79 V
7b
7G#
T 7O
75V
7S.TT
cN #
Sb V
7RcV
A#h
7Sbhh
7Ah
7hV
# Rb
76
7D6 V
7DG
7S5
7.
7 #
D7h T
7c
79
7b
c9 V
cS T
7GT
7b#h
cAb#
7O
75
h7Dc
a6DG
7T
7R9# V
6S5
5 hh
7
#
6.V
7. V
7RO
6h
7A. hh
7
76 V
75 h
7
7S
79 h
7b #
cG #
7G
7c #
R7
7O
a7A5T
7R# T
7R6 h
7#
7RG T
7O h
6 VhT
7D9V
7T
79h
7.
7 h#
7DO h
76
79h
7bh
7GV T
69 h
6bhh
7c
7O T
75V
7S.V T
F hh
7
7D
7Rb h
7D5 T
b9
. h
S5 T
7Sc T V
7D.
7. h h
7S5 h
h #
7 h V
cO
7 hT
V6G h
7b # h
79 #
D6 #
7G h
76 #
V T
7c T T
7O h
c5
75
7c #
T7Db hT
a76 h
7
7 T h
7R9 h h
6b h
7G # h
7RO h
cS h
#7 . h
7
7
7R # hT
7 b
7 9
7 G V
6 O # hT
7 O V
7 6 h
a7 5 h
b hV
7R #
6 5 #
7Ac
S7 T T
7 # #
6Dc
7SG T
h7 . h
7
7S6 h
T
7 h
7 b #
7 9 T
c
7 G T
7 O h
7R. h
7 5 h T
7 6 V T
7 T
7 c V
7Rb hh
6 hT
7 . h
7R5 h
7 G hT
b h
7 h
Dc h
9 #
5 O #
.SO h h
7Sc h T
7 b #
7 9 h
A7
7Db V h
7AG V
7 c
7 h
7 5
7 O
7 V #
7 6 V
6R9 h
7S9 V
7A6 hT
7 c
T T
7D. # V
6 c
7 .
7SO h h
a7 V
7D5
7R V #
7D h V
7 b
7 9
7 V h
7 G T hT
7 5
7 O h
7S T
7 V
G # h
7DO T
7 c T T
7SG #
S7 h
7 6
cRG
7 9
V7 . h
a7D9
7 h
7 O V hT
7 b T
7A9 h
c b T V
7 G h
7 h
T7S6 hV
7 5
7R.
7AO T
7 #
7 #
6 . h
6A. V #
7Sb V T
7 5 T
#7 c V
7R5 hV
7 .
7 6 T T
7D6 T
6RO
7 . h hV
7A h h
5
7 b h T
7 9
c .
D7
7 G
7 5 #
7Rc h V
7 h T
6 hT
7 O
7 b #
7 T hh
7Dc T T
h6S h
7S9 T
O V T
7DG V
6 5
7 . h
7SO T
7 c # T
Rc h hh
7 h V
7S
7 6 h T
a7Ab V #
7 9 T #
7 G T
c h
7 5 # h
7 O

--- PAGE 235 ---

            







  









 

 


   


 


 




 

   


   


 

 



 

 

 

 

 

 


   


 


        
    
         
             
             
         
 
        
     
          
             
             
 
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
       
     
       
       
       
     
 
       
      
       
       
       


--- PAGE 236 ---
February 2027 LONGITUDE
Day   Sid.Time 12 hour  Mean       True 1st of Month7 7 6c5 .O b9G
4M J J J a0 8 g
V TE
0Ha g
V VJ
F J
TN E
LM E
g C
TE
V T E
hVE
V h E
h E#
V EV
#Fh E
V h #E
VET
V VET
T #E
V h E
d
VE
V V E
# hTE
V E
E
V E
# hN V VN E hE# E TNh E Te E h EV 1 E h VE V E E #E# E
a #T h # h#E h ET FhTE # h E# T h#E E E h E V E# E hE E
## h## h hh hET h ET E #E V hE VE h E# h VET V TE E# Eh E
# T Th# hE h E# E h TE V E TE #Eh h Eh V #E E ET E#
# Vh T V h E h E h Eh VEh V E E hE h TE V hE E E VET
V h# V T hh hh h VE h E ET E EV E E h ET V E E TE #EV
T a hT T #h T h h Eh h E# E E E E E h #E V E# Eh #E# hE
# # #h F V F h E# h E# ET h E E hVE# VE h E# V EV Eh hE E
a # T V h# h h VET h E VEh V E# ET hhE #E h E V TE Eh E E
h hh # h T h E h E #E T E hE h E hE h E V E Eh E VE
hh# h T T h hE h E# hE # E h#E h #Eh h EV hE V E E E TE
TT h hTh h h h TE h EV E EV ET h EV EV VET V E E TE# E#
h T h h# h E h E h E# h E Eh h TET VEV EV V E E EV EV
a h h h T T V h hE# h E E# h E E h E #ET #EV V TE E# E E
hT V h #T hh h TEV h E E E VET h Eh hE# EV V E E E E
Va h T hT # TV # h E h E hE E E h E E hET T h E E E TEh
T Thh # hh h h E h E E ET E h E Eh VE# T h EV E TE #E#
# hT h T T # h #E h E h E V Eh ET h E hTE Eh T h E# E E hEV
hFhVhT 1Vh h1 h E h E VE T E h E h TEh h E E T h#E E E E
h #h hVV T h hT h ET h E # #E h E# h #Eh h Eh h ET h E T hE E E E
a hhV hTh eTh eV h h#E h ET T Eh h E h E h E h Eh E T E# E E E
hhV hTh T h h hE h E# V hTE# Eh 1 hE h E h VE #E T E E# TE TET
a hh hT 2 hh #2# h hE h E hTEV ET VEV h E# h #E# ET T TEV VEV E E
hV h## hT Eh h E EV E h Eh h EV h E E T hE TE h E V h E
h# V h#h # h P h E# h TE EV VE # ET h E h E TE# T EV #E h E V h E#
V h T hhh P # h EV h E E V hTE # VE h E h hVE E T E E h E V h E
T hVV # h hN h E h Eh h E T #E T EV h EV E E T TE# hEh hTE V hVE
# a hh FhV VN VE hE TE# # E T1 Eh h E 1 E TE# T hE Eh h EV V hTE#DECLINATION and LATITUDE
Day 12h Day7 7 6c5 .O b 9 G
C d LM
"0 "0 "0 "0 "0 "0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
" 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
T VV # T # hh h h T T # V h h
a VT T h TT h Vh hh h T # # T h T h
V T h V h h h h # # # h h
V # hh h # h hV h h # h h h h
V h T h h hh h T T # h h h
V #T hVh V # hT T # V h hV
Ta T hhV #V h # h h#
# h# # V T h hV h # h h
a T hh T T h # h h
h h V T V # V hT h
h # hV h T h h# T # V h h #
h V V VV T T # T h h #
h # h h V # # # V # # h #
a h h # VT h h # T # # T h #
h VhT h# Th T h hT h # # # h h # #
Va TT h T T h h V # # h h #
T h# TT V T h T hh Vh # # h #
# T h T T h V h# # Vh # # h T
V hT T #V # h T # hh # Vh h h # T
h h # hV V # h # h # Vh h h T
a h hV VT # h h T T h # Vh V h T
h T h V h T h # Vh # h V T
a Vh T V h h V h # Vh h h # T
# T # h T hV hV T h # Vh h T
#h h h h# h Vh h # Vh h T
V # h# V hV h h# V h # Vh # h V V
T # T h h V # hh # h h V
#a #h# V h Th h V h h V Vh # h h V
h V h h h h h# h h hV T
V h # h h h h h# h V h #
h h hh h h h# h h #
V h h hh h h h# h h hh
h # h h h h h# h h h
V h h h h h h# h h T h
V hh T # h T h h h
V # T h h Vh h h h #
V V # h T T h h h T
V h V h V h h h T
h # # h V T hh h hV h V
V T hh # h h h h# h
8 "8 4"8 aLM" 8
M M " 7 8 L"MM
"L ""W ""
g L4 /0 4" "LM
fWh " 0
g L48
fWh
g L48
T hV #
V h
h h
# #
V T T
T V h h
h h
h h
V V V
hVc
O h
T #.A F T V
# 6 h h
h h V
# hh V hh
V V # h
T hcA 1 #
h V h 6A e h h hh
T c 2 V
hh5 P
T V V5 N T h
g L48
: V T T #
V Vh T hT J
7 # hh
h ehV
3 h hE T
I # # N
DAILY ASPECTARIAN
6F T
7Sh
7
7#
h
7RGhhh
7.
a7#
6b
R7
7chV
7bh
76
79h
7G
69
6h
75h
7S.TV
7O
c
7A#
7
7Sbh
7R6T
7S5h
7.h
7DGh
7V
cb
7bT
7c#
79
7Dc
76
7b
7G
75VV
c9T
V 7O hT
7
R9h#
7R9 #
7 T
D7Th
7RcT
7.hh#
h
T 7A. #
a75T
5G T
6A5TV
7RO##
7Shh
7hhV
6Gh
7#h
7b
79 h
# c5 h
7A5
7c T
7G #
76
7D6 T
.T
cGh V
b
7O h
7
7R
6cT
O
a7O
7# #
7RG# V
7. #
7D9 h
79 h
6 TT
cS.h
7h
7DO
h7bVh
79T
75 h
7G h
76 h
R7 #
7S.V V
7c# h
76
7 V
7O
A.h h
5 V
7D h#
7Rbh V
7S5
6G h
7R6T
7.
7 h
7h h
7D5
7 h
7D.V V
7b h
79
75ThV
cA
76hh
7G h
7
7cVT
7OT h
7Db# h
cO
7c
7R9# #
7G
7. V
a T
7#hh
7R#
7RO T
7h
S h
7Sc h
59T T
7b# V
75h V
79h
76 T
7G
7
7O
7R
RO
7c
69 T
V7SG
a7. #
d T #
7 V
7
6A5T
7b
76
75
6b
79
T7G
7R.
5bV
7
6Rc h
7O hV
S7 T
cS5
7S6 h T
7R5 #
7Ac h
7Rb h
#cSb h
7 . h#
6 T
7 G V
7
6 V h
7 6 h
7
7 5 V
F
7 b h
7 9 h h#
7 c
7Db h
7AG h
7 h
7 O #
A5
h7S9 h
7D. hh
7D5
7 c T
7 . h#
7R V
b
7SO
7 T
7A6 V h
7
7 5 h
7D h
7 b
A7
6
6RO h h
a7 9 h V
7 6 h
7Sc
7 G
c .
5D. h
7
5 1
T
7S V h
7 O V hV
9
7DO h
7 .
7SG V
7 c T
7 9 h
7D9 h T
7 6
7 T h
7 O h
7 5 h
6S
7 b h T
ac b
7A9
D6 h
7
7R. T h
7 G # h
7S6
7 V
7AO V
7R5 h
D7
7D6
7
7Sb #
6 c h
7 . h
S7
6 V
7 6 h
7 c V #
G V
7A h
7 5 hh
7 . h
7 5
7 b
7 9 # h
7 G
7
7
7Dc T
V7 b h V
7 O T
7S9 h
7 .
7DG V V
7 6 h
T7S h
5SO h
c
7 V hh
7 c V V
7 5 V V
7SO V T
c 5 h
7Ab
7 9 T h
7 G
#5 h
a 7 #
7 T h
7S
7 O
7Rc

--- PAGE 237 ---

            
 










          
     
  

 

   



 

 




 

 



 

 

   

     

   
        
 
      
       
       
       
 
 
        
     
      
       
       
    
 
       
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
      
   
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
       
  
       
       
       
       
 
 
       
      
       
       
       
   

--- PAGE 238 ---
March 2027LONGITUDE
Day   Sid.Time 12 hour  Mean       True 1st of Month7 7 6c5 .O b9G
4M J J J a0 8 g
V V E
0Ha g
V VJ
F TJ
TN E
LM h E
g C
V Eh
V # E
h TEh
V VE
#E#
V # h E
h E#
Fh Eh
V E
T VE
V E
E#
V E
T ET
d
hE
V V E
# E
V h hE
E
V E
V VE
h hFh #NV N E h EV VE hE T1h#E# h TEh 1 Eh h E T E E ET V h E
a h# hhT h h V Vh E h EV h E h E# V TEh h E #Eh E T E# E E V E
h hh hh# # h VE# h VE h VE h E V EV h E E #E T #EV E VEh V ET
hVh# h ## h EV h #Eh h VE E V h EV h E E Eh T E E #E V E
hhh h V h h#hV hE h E h E E# E h #E# TET E T E VE# hE V E
V h h hh # h# TE hhE E TE E h E# E #E# T TEh #E E V TE
Ta hT# V hV hFTh VF Eh h E# E V #ET h Eh h TE h ET E# T E E ET V Eh
# h T h Th # T hE h #E EV # hhE VE h E # #E E# T E# hhE# VE V hEV
a h # h TET h Eh E# E #E h TE # E E T E# h E E V E
h h# h T # E h hET VEV h E hEV h ET # VE hTEh T #E# h E# E V EV
h h hV T T# E h E# E# E E# h #EV # hE E # h E# h E E V E
T hh VT h T h#E h hET E TEh TE# h E # EV E # h E# hVE E# V VE
T h T h hEh h hVE hhE #ET E EV # Eh #E # hTE h#EV #Eh V #Eh
a hT h # T hE# h hEh #EV hE hTET #ET # E ET # Eh hE hE V E
h hT V # #EV hhE V hE V E E# VE # #E E # E Eh E V hE#
Va T hV TV V hV # E h hEh T E T E hET Eh # E hE # TE E# ET V E
T T V h #T h Th # E h hE # E # VE #E E # h#E TE # hE EV TEh V E
# h T h T T 1# # E h hE E #E VET hEV # h E h E# # E# TE E V E
T # hV 1 hT h # E hhE hF TEh hE h E# E T #EV E # TEh E E V VE
h h V V e # ET h hE EV E E# h#ET T E E # hE E E# V TE
a h h h# ehh # hV # EV h hE# hE E VE #E T ET VE # E E VEh V #E#
ThV h#V V 2 h # VE E hhEV VE #Eh #Eh T EV E # VE E #E V hEh
a hh hT 2# V # E E E# #E hE #E T EV ET # hE TE hhEV V E
h hT h# h# # hEh VE V TEh T hEV E #ET T TE# E # E E h E V E
h#V hV# VP#V Ph # VE# #E T E # E# TE E T E VEV # VE ET h E V ET
V hV h # # ET E h Eh Eh E hEV T hEV V h E # hE E hTE V E#
T V V hh N V #NT # hE E h hE# hF TE hTE E T TE V EV # ET VE h ET V VEh
#a hV T h V# h V # TE hEV E EV h E E# T E V E # TE #E Eh V TE
# h V h # E TE h E E hhE E# T E V VEV hhEV hE# E V #E
ha # h # #T # Eh TEh hE E h #E #E T #EV V E h E E VE V E
h h h ## V #hTE# TE F VEV F VEV h1 VE hE# T1 VEh V ET hTEV E #E# V hE
DECLINATION and LATITUDE
Day 12h Day7 7 6c5 .O b 9 G
C d LM
"0 "0 " 0 "0 "0 "0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
" 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
T T # T h # hV V h # h h V
a T T# h V V h V h V# # # T h hT V
VVh Vh T V h h V T # # # h h V
VT # h Vh V # # # V h h V
V Vh # T h # # h V T # T V h h V
V h V h h# # hT T h V # T V h h # V
Ta T h h T h # h ThV # V V hT h
# h Vh hV V h# T T hh Th h # V V h h
a h hh T hV T hV T hT # V h T
h T V V h h TV h T h # V h
hT h h T h hh T h # V h
h T hh hhh T hh V hh TV h h # V T h
hV hT V h VV hh T # V # h #
a V hV V T h V hh T T # # V h h
T# T T h h Vh hh T V # V h
Va T# h V h hh TT # V h V
T hV # h h T h # h V h
# h# # h h V h h h Th # # h V V h
h Th h h h T V # V T h
h h h h hV # T hV h T # # V h #
a hh V # T h h T T # # V h h h
hT h hT h h# T # V # T V h h
a h TT h h h T V # V V h hT
V V h # T h T # V h h
# # h h T h T hT T h # V h
V h h hh # hh T # # V V h
T h V h h T V V # V V h #
#a Th Th h# h# hV T # V T h
T hV T h # h h h Th # V # h
ha V Vh # h h T h # V h T
h Th # hT h TT V # # h V h h h
h h h h h h# h h V
V h h h h h V h hT h hV
h h h h T h hT h
V h h h h h h hT h
h h h h h hT h h
V h h h h h hT h
hT h h h V h hT h V
T h # T h h h
V V h h h
h V # h h h h
V # T h V h h
hV # h hT h# h h
V # h h Vh h V h
T h V h h T h
8 "8 4"8 aLM" 8
M M " 7 8 L"MM
"L ""W ""
g L4 /0 4" "LM
fWh " 0
g L48
fWh
g L48
# T h V
V h
# h T h
h#
V T T
VV T
hT h
h h
h
# T T
h V
V h5 T
O
V h 5A F V T
# h
h#5 V T
6
h 6 V
T 1 #
V #cA e h #
h b 2 # h
# hhc P
V h 5 N V
# h5 V
h V O
g L48
: # TF
7 V V
h 2
I h h hV
DAILY ASPECTARIAN
7.V
T
7RG T
76
c V
75Vh
7T
7ch
a7bV
79 h
7S.TV
7R6h
7G
7A #
cb h
7S5
7 V
7O
7Sb##
R #
6
7. h#
76Th#
c9#
75h
7DG
OV
7V
R7#
7b #
79#T
7chhT
7b
7Gh
7Dc#
7#
7O V
5R V
75V
7T
7.
V 7R9h#
7A.h
h
76V#
7D6 V
cG
7A5h
7S V
7 h
7ROh
7
T 7b
a79Vh#
7G #
7chV
7h
D7
# 7Rh
7O V
7OVV
7
7.h
7RGV
76#
79hh
7D9
7Rc
C h
75
7
a7DOh
7b
7
. #
79 #
7S.V
7G h
7R6
h7S5 h
7c
7
c5#
ch T
7O V
7RbV T
7DV T
7.
7 h
76
76
75 h#
6A5#
7 T
7D.T
O h#
7bhhV
.S9h
7ch h
79 V
7D5
R7
7G
RGV
7 V
7Db
7cV h
7O#h
7. T
7R9
7G
7# V
75
cO h
76
7R hh
7# h
7ROh T
c.
5 h
7b
a79 V
7G# h
6SV V
7T h
7Rh
7O h
7c h
7.
7SG h
75
V
7 V V
76 h
7 T
V h
a7b hh
7Sc V h
7R. V T
79 T
cA. hV
7G #
7R5 hh
6 #
7 h
T7S6 h h#
cR9 h V
7O
7Rb V
7. T T
7c
75
7G
7
#7 h
76
7b T
6F h h
79 h hV
7Db h
6RO V
7AG
7 h
7D5 h
S7
7 O h
7D. V h
T
7 .
7S9 h#
hV
7 c h
cA5 V V
7 5 V #
7Ac V #
7 6 #
h7R h
9 T
7 h
7
7D
7SO V
7A6
7 b
7 9 h
6 b
7 G V
h V
7
a7S #
7DO V
7 O T
7 .
D9 V
7SG T
7 5 T
D7
7D9 T
7 9 hV
7
7 c hV
6 9
7
A7 h
7 O
7 b
7R.
7A9
7 6 V T
7R5
7 G
7Sc h
a7 h
b # hT
7AO h
S.
6 T
7Sb
7D6 T
7 . h
7
7S6 h
7 5 h
7Dc h
6 G h
7 c # hh
7A h h
cS
7 . hh
7 b V h
7
7 9
7 5 h #
9
7 G h T
7 6
c #
7 b T
7 h
7 O T h
7 . h
7S9
V S7 h
7DG hh
7 5 h
c F # #
7S V
7 T V
7 c h T
7SO hh
T S5 h
7Ab h
7 9
7 # h
7 G #
cRO hh
G V
7 6 T T
7 V
7S
#7 O
a7 .
7 5 h
c b
7RG
c h V
7 V
7S.
7 b hh
6 V
7 c #
7 9 h#
6R V
7S5 # V
7 G h #
c 9
h 7 h
a h
7A h #
7 6 h
7 O V
7 . T h
7Sb # T
7Rc h #
7 5 h T
7DG h
6 O h
7 T h
6 . hT

--- PAGE 239 ---

            










 


 



   


   


   

 

 

 

 

 



   


 

 


   


 

 

 

   

 
   
     
      
       
       
 
 
   
  
      
       
       
      
 
       
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
       
      
       
       
       
 
 
       
   
       
       
       
     

--- PAGE 240 ---
April 2027 LONGITUDE
Day   Sid.Time 12 hour  Mean       True 1st of Month7 7 6c5 .O b9G
4M J J J a0 8 g
V VE
0Ha g
V VJ
F J
TN E
LM hE
g C
h E
V ET
V h E
V # VE
E
V hVE#
# #E
V hE#
E
V V Eh
E
V hE
d
T h E
V h E
EV
V #E
E
V T E
V h# T # # hEV #ET TF EV VF Eh h1 ET EV T1 EV V E E TE Eh V E
h# h hT h h # hE ET # E # h E h ET VE# T E V VE# EV hE E V E
hh V F T T #E EV h E E h VE hE T h E T h E #E E E V E
a # hhhV #F T T E TEV TEV h VE h TET h Eh T hTEV T E ET E TE# V E
# hV T T E E ET #E h E# TE T hVEh T E E #E hEh V E
Va V # # h T #ET hVEV hTE E h EV E T h E T TEh #E# hhET E V VE
T hh V TV T h T E # TE V E h E hVE VET T h E T EV E h E E V TEh
# hh# T V# h T T V T E # TE # ET VE hE V h E T h E T E VEh hVEh VE# V TE#
h#h # h h T E # TET hh ET V Eh E V VE T h E T ET EV h#ET Eh V #ET
h h # # h h T VEh # #E E T EV hE# V ET T hhEV T TE E E E V E
a T h hh h T E# # Eh TE # E TEh V TE T hhE # h E VE# E E T hhE
# V h#V V T EV # E EV h hVE# E# T h E V E# # E hE TEh EV T h Eh
a h h V T hV T VE #E V TEV E E T #E V ET # hEh E E TE# T h ET
TT hhh h 1T T E # ET # E Eh E T E V E# # TEV TET E# hEh T h E
#T #1h T hE #E h E EV #E T E T hhE # E h h E ET E T h Eh
V h T Vh T VE # E E# TE hTE # h#E T hhE # ET h h Eh #EV E T h ET
T T V V Ve Vh e # T E# # E VE V h E TE # Eh T h E # hE h h#ET E VE T h E
# a T h # T #h T hEV # h#E V hEV T EV TE# # E T h Eh # TET h E E #EV T h E
Th # 2 2 h T hTE # hE # h E # E #E# # E T h Eh h E h VEh TE hhET T h E
ha V h # h V T hE T E h h ET #Eh hE VE# T h E ET h EV hEV h E# T h E
h h PT #Ph T hEh T ET hEh hhET h E E T h EV hE h E EV h E T hVE
V # hTT V TE T EV hhE# E E E T hTE TET h VE VET hTEh T hVE
hV TV T T N V ET T TE V h Eh VE #E h hE T h#E E h hEV E# h E T hTE
hT V hNh# V h# V E T hVET # h ET #E E# h #EV T hE# E h E E E T hTE#
a h #V # V #E V #Eh hh#ET ET VEh h TE T E hEh h TE VE E T h#E
V hV hT h # V E V E# Eh T h E hEV h ET T E TE h EV E E T h#E
Ta h V V V Eh V #E hE # TE ET E T TEV h h E# h E h E TE T h#E
# T # V h V #E# VVET V TET hEh E E T hE h E h #E h ET E T h E
V # # h h# V h V EV VVE # E h E# TE h EV T Eh h E h E h#E E T h E
h h V hh # h # VE VVE h ET ET 1 ET E T1 VEh h VE# h VE E E T h ET
DECLINATION and LATITUDE
Day 12h Day7 7 6c5 .O b 9 G
C d LM
"0 "0 "0 "0 "0 "0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
" 0 " 0 " 0 " 0
hT h Th# hV T V # V h h
Th h# V # h T # # V h V
h# hT Vh h h T h h # # V h
a V V ## h TT hT h# # T V h
h T # hV T h hV # V V h
Va VT h TT T T T h# T h h # V h T
T Vh hh # T T h T# h # V h h
# Th Vh# ## V V T T h # # V h
T h h V# Th h # V h V
h TT Vh Vh V T hV h # V h
a #h Vh Th hV h # Th h h h # V h h
# T h VVh h h # h# h V# # h T # h V h h
a # Vh h# h V h # V h hT
V h V # V# h # V h h
T ## h V hV T V h # # # V h
V # T h hh h h V V# h # T V h V
T h TV V V V # V V h # V V h
#a hh V h h V T h # # V V h
h h #h h V h V h # V h
ha hV V h T VV h h # V h T
Vh h # T h h Vh # h # # V h h
h h h # h h Vh V h # V h h
T # hh T h # V h h
V # ThV V h h h hT # V h #
a h T hV T h# hV h V h h # h V # h
V V Vh hT h T T T h hh # V T h
Ta T # hT # T h V # V T hh V
# h h V hV hT V # # # V V hh
h #V h Vh hV hT # V # # T V hh
h # h# T hhT h# h # V V hh
h# h h h V h hT h V
V h h h h hT h h T
h h h h h hT h # h #
V V h h h h hT h h
h h h T h hT h T h
V # h h h h h hT h h
T h V h T h
V V V V h h
V # V h# V h h h
V T h h
hV # h h h
V h h V V V h h
8 "8 4"8 aLM" 8
M M " 7 8 L"MM
"L ""W ""
g L4 /0 4" "LM
fWh " 0
g L48
fWh
g L48
h # h
h
T h h
T T
h T Thhh
V h
# h
h h
h T
T h V#
h
h5A F T V
6 V h
T T 5 T
5 h
V V
# 1
V e V
# #cA 2 # V
h # 5 P h
V 5 N #
V5
T T hO #
h V 5A F h
g L48
: V V T
7 # T
h # hP T
I # h #
DAILY ASPECTARIAN
7R6hV
cGhT
7bh
7bT
79
7G
7ch
DO
5 h
7T
75h#
7h
7.V
7OV
7A.Vh
hT
7R9hT
76h#
7A5h
R7
7
7VhV
7ST
65#
7ROT
.Ohh
7bh#
7Dc#
79Vh
7Gh
6
6RGh#
7c h
a7
7D6Vh
7O##
7R
7
7
7.V
7OV
75 V
7RG
79 h
6O
76
7D9V
7
7S.h
76 #
7b
7DO
V 79
a7S5h
7G
D7V#
7c
7c#hT
7
7
T 7.hh
7Ohh
7Rb
. h
7D #
75T
cR
OT
76 #
ch h
7 #
7Rc #
# 7D.
Rb h
7b h
7D5 hV
79T h
7G T
6# T
c# V
7Db
6
7R6 V
7
7c V
7.
7OV V
7#
7R9
c.h
7G
75
h7
6S. h
cO
7RVhT
76T
7RO#
7b#
79 V
R7
7G
6bh
69
a7R h
7#
7.# V
7Oh
7c V
5 T
75Vh#
7V
7SGV #
69T
.
cO
7 V #
7R. T
7b h
79
76T
7R5T
7G#
6S5hh
6D9
ORb
6Gh
a.
c5# h#
7.
7
7Rb
7O
cRG hT
75
7ch
7 #
7G
7 h
7Db #
hh
7b
79T T
7AG
5D.h h
7Sch V
76 h
7D.h
7D5h
7. #
7V
V
7OT
7S9
75
V7c V
6c
7
7D #
7S6
7
D7 #
7R #
7 b #
7SO
7 9 h#
T7 G h #
7DO # h
S7
Rb h
7D6 #
7S
7 6 V
7 . T
7 c h
7 h
7 O
#7D9 V
a7SG
7 5
7 9 T #
6 . h
7Dc
7Ac #
7
7 V
7R. T
6DO
7 b
7A9 hT
7 O
7 6
7 G
7R5 #
6Rb V
6 #
6 O h
c hV
O
7 . #
h7Sb h
a 7 h
7
7AO hT
7 V
c #
7A6
T
7 5 #
D h T
c hh
V
7A h
7 5
A7 #
7 c hV
7 . h
7 b hV
7 9 V
7 G h
c 9
6 5 #
cS.
7 b h
7 .
7Sc
7 O #
7
7S9 h h
7DG h
7 5 V
7 6 h #
7 #
c b # h
7 h V
7Ab T
7 c
7SO
7 9 #
7S h
7 G #
7S6 V #
b T
7S h
c 9 h T
7 . h
S7 T h
7 O # V
7 h V
6
cD9 h
7RG h
7 5 V
a6 T
7 V
9 V
7 6 #
7S.
7 b h
Vc G
7 9
7 h#
6D
7 G h
7 c
7S5 V
6 b h
T7 . T
a7Sb
7 O T h
7A h
6 9 h
G V
7 5 V T
7DG #
#cS5
7 hV
6 G T #
7 b #
7 b T
7 9 V
7 G T T
7 6 h
7 h
h
6
7 c #
7 .
D6 h
7A.
7 5 V
7 6 #
7
7R9 h
7 O h T
h7 h
6D5 #
7A5 V
7
7Rc h
7 T h

--- PAGE 241 ---

            
 
   
     
      
       
       
    
 
   

      
      
       
       
  


 


 











 

             
   
 

 


 


 



 

 

 

 


 


   


 


   

 
       
 
       
      
       
       
       
    
 
       
 
       
       
       
       
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
       
    
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  


--- PAGE 242 ---


--- PAGE 243 ---


--- PAGE 244 ---
